System	  Reference	   Document	  5.1 	   216	  
at	  your	  feet.	  If	  the	  sword	  has	  no	  unobstructed	  path	  
to	  you,	  it	  moves	  as	  close	  to	  you	  as	  it	  can	  and	  then	  
falls	  to	  the	  ground.	  It	  also	  ceases	  to	  hover	  if	  you 	  
grasp	  it	  or	  move	  more	  than	  30	  feet	  away	  from	  it. 	  
Decanter of Endless Water 
Wondrous	  item,	  uncommon 	  
This	  stoppered	  flask	  sloshes	  when	  shaken,	  as	  if	  it	  
contains	  water.	  The	  decanter	  weighs	  2	  pounds. 	  
	   You	  can	  use	  an	  action	  to	  remove	  the	  stopper	  and	  
speak	  one	  of	  three	  command	  words,	  whereupon	  an	  
amount	  of	  fresh	  water	  or	  salt	  water	  (your	  choice)	  
pours	  out	  of	  the	  flask.	  The	  water	  stops	  pouring	  out	  at	  
the	  start	  of	  your	  next	  turn.	  Choose	  from	  the	  
following	  options: 	  
• “Stream”	  produces	  1	  gallon	  of	  water.
• “Fountain”	  produces	  5	  gallons	  of	  water.
• “Geyser”	  produces	  30	  gallons	  of	  water	  that	  gushe
s
forth	  in	  a	  geyser	  30	  feet	  long	  and	  1	  foot	  wide.	  As	  a
bonus	  action	  while	  holding	  the	  decanter,	  you	  ca n
aim	  the	  geyser	  at	  a	  creature	  you	  can	  see	  within	  30
feet	  of	  you.	  The	  target	  mu st	  succeed	  on	  a	  DC	  13
Strength	  saving	  throw	  or	  take	  1d4	  bludgeonin g
damage	  and	  fall	  prone.	  Instead	  of	  a	  creature,	  you
can	  target	  an	  object	  that	  isn’t	  being	  worn	  or
carried	  and	  that	  weighs	  no	  more	  than	  200	  pounds.
The	  object	  is	  either	  knocked	  over	  or	  pushed 	  up	  to
15	  feet	  away	  from	  you.
Deck of Illusions 
Wondrous	  item,	  uncommon 	  
This	  box	  contains	  a	  set	  of	  parchment	  cards.	  A	  full	  
deck	  has	  34	  cards.	  A	  deck	  found	  as	  treasure	  is	  
usually	  missing	  1d20	  −	  1	  cards. 	  
	   The	  magic	  of	  the	  deck	  functions	  only	  if	  cards	  are	  
drawn	  at	  random	  (you	  can	  use	  an	  altered	  deck	  of	  
playing	  cards	  to	  simulate	  the	  deck).	  You	  can	  use	  an	  
action	  to	  draw	  a	  card	  at	  random	  from	  the	  deck	  and	  
throw	  it	  to	  the	  ground	  at	  a	  point	  within	  30	  feet	  of	  
you.	  
	   An	  illusion	  of	  one	  or	  more	  creatures	  forms	  over	  
the	  thrown	  card	  and	  remains	  until	  dispelled.	  An	  
illusory	  creature	  appears	  real,	  of	  the	  appropriate	  
size,	  and	  behaves	  as	  if	  it	  were	  a	  real	  creature	  except	  
that	  it	  can	  do	  no	  harm.	  While	  you	  are	  within	  120	  feet	  
of	  the	  illusory	  creature	  and	  can	  see	  it,	  you	  can	  us e	  an	  
action	  to	  move	  it	  magically	  anywhere	  within	  30	  feet	  
of	  its	  card.	  Any	  physical	  interaction	  with	  the	  illusory	  
creature	  reveals	  it	  to	  be	  an	  illusion,	  because	  objects	  
pass	  through	  it.	  Someone	  who	  uses	  an	  action	  to	  
visually	  inspect	  the	  creature	  identifies	   it	  as	  illusory	  
with	  a	  successful	  DC	  15	  Intelligence	  (Investigation)	  
check.	  The	  creature	  then	  appears	  translucent. 	  
	   The	  illusion	  lasts	  until	  its	  card	  is	  moved	  or	  the	  
illusion	  is	  dispelled.	  When	  the	  illusion	  ends,	  the	  
image	  on	  its	  card	  disappears,	  and	  that	  c ard	  can’t	  be	  
used	  again.	  
Playing	  Card	   Illusion	  
Ace	  of	  hearts	   Red	  dragon	  
King	  of	  hearts	   Knight	  and	  four	  guards 	  
Queen	  of	  hearts	   Succubus	  or	  incubus 	  
Jack	  of	  hearts	   Druid	  
Ten	  of	  hearts	   Cloud	  giant	  
Nine	  of	  hearts	   Ettin	  
Eight	  of	  hearts	   Bugbear	  
Two	  of	  hearts	   Goblin	  
Ace	  of	  diamonds	   Beholder	  
King	  of	  diamonds	   Archmage	  and	  mage	  apprentice 	  
Queen	  of	  diamonds 	   Night	  hag	  
Jack	  of	  diamonds	   Assassin	  
Ten	  of	  diamonds	   Fire	  giant	  
Nine	  of	  diamonds	   Ogre	  mage	  
Eight	  of	  diamonds 	   Gnoll	  
Two	  of	  diamonds	   Kobold	  
Ace	  of	  spades	   Lich	  
King	  of	  spades	   Priest	  and	  two	  acolytes 	  
Queen	  of	  spades	   Medusa	  
Jack	  of	  spades	   Veteran	  
Ten	  of	  spades	   Frost	  giant	  
Nine	  of	  spades	   Troll	  
Eight	  of	  spades	   Hobgoblin	  
Two	  of	  spades	   Goblin	  
Ace	  of	  clubs	   Iron	  golem	  
King	  of	  clubs	   Bandit	  captain	  and 	  three	  bandits	  
Queen	  of	  clubs	   Erinyes	  
Jack	  of	  clubs	   Berserker	  
Ten	  of	  clubs	   Hill	  giant	  
Nine	  of	  clubs	   Ogre	  
Eight	  of	  clubs	   Orc	  
Two	  of	  clubs	   Kobold	  
Jokers	  (2)	   You	  (the	  deck’s	  owner) 	  
Deck of Many Things 
Wondrous	  item,	  legendary 	  
Usually	  found	  in	  a	  box	  or 	  pouch,	  this	  deck	  contains	  a	  
number	  of	  cards	  made	  of	  ivory	  or	  vellum.	  Most	  (75	  
percent)	  of	  these	  decks	  have	  only	  thirteen	  cards,	  but	  
the	  rest	  have	  twenty -­‐‑two.	  
	   Before	  you	  draw	  a	  card,	  you	  must	  declare	  how	  
many	  cards	  you	  intend	  to	  draw	  and	  then	  draw	  them	  
randomly	  (you	  can	  use	  an	  altered	  deck	  of	  playing	  
cards	  to	  simulate	  the	  deck).	  Any	  cards	  drawn	  in	  
excess	  of	  this	  number	  have	  no	  effect.	  Otherwise,	  as	  