
===== PAGE 1 =====
Dungeon Module B2
The Keep on the Borderlands
by Gary Gygax
INTRODUCTORY MODULE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 1-3
B2
9034
This module includes a cover folder with maps and a complete description booklet to form a ready-made scenario for
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Basic Set. It has been specifically designed for use by beginning Dungeon Masters so that
they may begin play with a minimum of preparations.
Within are many features to aid novice players and Dungeon Masters: legends and background information, a list of
adventuring characters, tips on how to be an effective Dungeon Master, plus an interesting area for characters to base
themselves in (the Keep) before setting out to explore the Caves of Chaos!
If you enjoy this module, lok for more releases in the D&D
® family from TSR, The Game Wizards.
© 1980, 1981, TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® and D&D® are registered trade marks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc.
Special
InstructionalModule
FOR DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®
BASIC SET
©1980 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved
TSR Hobbies, Inc.
POB 756
LAKE GENEVA, WI 53147
PRINTED IN U.S.A.

===== PAGE 2 =====


===== PAGE 3 =====
Dungeon Module B2
The Keep on the Borderlands
by Gary Gygax
INTRODUCTORY MODULE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS  
1-3
This module includes  a cover folder with maps  and a complete description booklet to  form  a  ready-made scenario for
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS@ Basic Set. It hus been specially designed for use by beginning Dungeon Musters so  that they
muy begin  play  with  a minimum of preparations.
Within are muny features to  aid  novice players and Dungeon Musters: legends, history  and background  information,  a list
of adventuring  characters, tips on how to be an effective Dungeon Muster, plus on interesting  area for characters to base
themselves in (the Keep) before  setting out to explore the Caves of Chuos!
If you enjoy this module, look for more releases in the D&D@ family from TSR, The Gume Wizards.
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House
of Canada, Ltd. Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors.
C 1981 by TSR Hobbies, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS@ and D&D@ are registered trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc.
TSR Hobbies, Inc.
POB  756
LAKE GENEVA, WI 53147
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
ISBN  0-935696-47-4

===== PAGE 4 =====
Dungeons & Dragons
Dungeon Module #B2
The Keep on the Borderlands
Introduction: Welcome to the land of imagination. You are
about to begin a journey into worlds where magic and
monsters are the order of the day, where law and chaos
are forever at odds, where adventure and heroism are the
meat and drink of all who would seek their fortunes in un-
common pursuits. This is the realm of DUNGEONS  
&
DRAGONS@ Adventure Game.
If you plan to play in this module and participate in the fun
of adventuring, stop reading now. The information in the
rest of the module is for your Dungeon Master or DM, so that
he or she may guide you and other players through a thrill-
ing adventure. Knowing too much about the contents of this
module will spoil the surprises and excitement of the game.
Dungeon Masters, if many copies of this module are avail-
able to the players, you may wish to alter sections of the
Keep and the Caves of Chaos. If you do this, you will be sure
to have new surprises for players who might be familiar with
some of the contents of the module. You are not entering
this world in the usual manner, for you are setting forth to be
a 
Dungeon Master. Certainly there are stout fighters,
mighty magic-users, wily thieves, and courageous clerics
who will make their mark in the magical lands of D&D@
adventure. You, however, are above even the greatest of
these, for as DM you are to become the Shaper of the
Cosmos. It is you who will give form and content to all the
universe. You will breathe life into the stillness, giving mean-
ing and purpose to all the actions which are to follow. The
others in your group will assume the roles of individuals and
play their parts, but each can only perform within the
bounds you will set. It is now up to you to create a magical
realm filled with danger, mystery, and excitement, com-
plete with countless challenges. Though your role is the
greatest, it is also the most difficult. You must now prepare
to become all things to all people.
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER
The basic instruction book for DUNGEONS & DRAGONS@
Game has given you the information necessary to under-
stand this game and start play. This module is another tool.
It is a scenario or setting which will help you to understand
the fine art of being a Dungeon Master as you introduce
your group of players to your own fantasy world, 
your inter-
pretation of the many worlds of DUNGEONS & DRAGONS@
Adventure. THE KEEP ON THE BORDERLANDS is simply of-
fered for your use as a way to move smoothly and rapidly
into your own special continuing adventures or cam-
paigns. Read the module thoroughly; you will notice that
the details are left in your hands. This allows you to person-
alize the scenario, and suit it to what you and your players
will find most enjoyable.
NOTE: Several words in the following text will be followed by
an asterisk (*). This means that the word will be explained in
the Glossary at the end of this module.
This module has been designed to allow six to nine player
characters of first level to play out many adventures,
gradually working up to second or third level of experience
in the process. 
The group is assumed to have at least one
magic-user and one cleric In It. If you have fewer than six
players, be sure to arrange for them to get both advice and
help in the KEEP. For example, they should have advice
from a friendly individual to “stay near the beginning of the
ravine area, and enter the lower caves first”, to avoid their
getting into immediate trouble with higher level monsters.
Likewise, the services of several men-at-arms* 
must be
available to smaller parties, If only two or three player char-
acters are to adventure, be sure to have a non-player char-
acter or two go along, as well as a few men-at-arms. In ad-
dition, give the player characters a magic dagger or some
magic arrows and at least one 
potion of healing - family
bequests to aid them in finding their fame and fortune
when they go against Chaos.
The DM should be careful to give the player characters a
reasonable chance to survive. If your players tend to be
rash and unthinking, it might be better to allow them to
have a few men-at-arms accompany them even if the party
is large, and they don’t attempt to hire such mercenaries*.
Hopefully, they will quickly learn that the monsters here will
work together and attack intelligently, if able. If this lesson is
not learned, all that can be done is to allow the chips to fall
where they may. Dead characters cannot be brought back
to life here!
Using the KEEP as “home base”, your players should be
able to have quite a number of adventures (playing
sessions) before they have exhausted all the possibilities of
the 
Caves of Chaos map. Assuming that they have played
well, their player characters will certainly have advanced
a level or two in experience when the last minion of dark-
ness falls before their might. While your players will have
advanced in their understanding and ability, you will like-
wise have increased your skills as DM. In fact, before they
have finished all the adventure areas of this module, it is
likely that you will have begun to add your own separate
maps to the setting. The KEEP is only a small section of the
world. You must build the towns and terrain which surround
it. You must shape the societies, create the kingdoms, and
populate the countryside with men and monsters.
The KEEP is a microcosm, a world in miniature. Within its
walls your players will find what is basically a small village
with a social order, and will meet opponents of a sort. Out-
side lies the way to the 
Caves of Chaos where monsters
abound. As you build the campaign setting, you can use
this module as a guide. Humankind and its allies have es-
tablished strongholds 
- whether fortresses or organized
countries - where the players’ characters will base them-
selves, interact with the society, and occasionally en-
counter foes of one sort or another. Surrounding these
strongholds are lands which may be hostile to the bold ad-
venturers. Perhaps there are areas of wilderness filled with
dangerous creatures, or maybe the neighboring area is a
land where chaos and evil rule (for wilderness adventures,
see DUNGEONS 
& DRAGONS@ EXPERT SET). There are natural
obstacles to consider, such as mountains, marshes, deserts,
and seas. There can also be magical barriers, protections,
and portals. Anything you can imagine could be part of
your world if you so desire. The challenge to your imagina-
tion is to make a world which will bring the ultimate in fabu-
lous and fantastic adventure to your players. A world which
they may believe in.
NOTE: For your convenience, whenever a monster or non-
player character (NPC*) is described in the text, the details
will be listed in the following order:
Name (Armor Class, Class/Level  
or Hit Dice, hit points, Num-
ber of Attacks per round, Damage per attack, Move-
ment (per round), Save as class and level, Morale)
Armor Class = AC; Class: Cleric = C, Fighter = F, Magic-
user = M, Thief = T,  Dwarf = D, Elf = E, Halfling = H, Normal
Man = LVL  0 or NM; Level = #, Hit Dice = HD, hit points =
hp, Number of Attacks =#AT,  Damage = D, Movement =
MV, Save = Save, Morale = ML.
Class/level is only used for non-player characters (NPCs),
while Hit  Dice is used for all other monsters. Movement in a
game turn is three times the movement given for one com-
bat round. NPCs 
save at the same level as their class level
of experience.
2

===== PAGE 5 =====
Examples: Taverner (AC 9, LVL 0, hp 6, #AT  I, D 1-6, ML 8)
Guard (AC 4, F 1,  hp 7, #AT 1,  D 1-6, ML 10)
Kobold (AC 7, HD V2, hp 3, #AT 1, D 1-4, MV (40’)
Save NM, ML 6)
#AT  l/2 indicates that the player may only attack once
every 2 rounds.
l An asterisk after Hit Dice indicates an experience point
bonus.
* * Two asterisks after Hit Dice indicates double the normal
experience point bonus.
Determining Armor Class:
Armor Class Type of Armor
9 None
;
Shield only
Leather
:
Leather&Shield
Chainmail
4 Chainmail &Shield
i
Plate Mail
Plate Mail &Shield
1 Plate Mail & magic Shield +1 (or other
combinations)
Note that an Armor Class (AC) of less than 2 is possible for
characters wearing magic armor, carrying a magic shield,
having a higher than normal Dexterity score, and/or wear-
ing a 
ring of protection. Players using these items will sub-
tract bonuses from their AC - for example, a fighter using
both Plate Mail + 1 and Shield + 1 would have AC 0.
Using the Combat Tables:
To find the die roll needed to hit any Armor Class, look at
the HOW TO ATTACK section in the D&D  Basic Set rule-
book. Compare the Level (if a character) or Hit Dice (if a
monster) with the AC of the target to find the number
needed ‘to hit’. For Armor Classes lower than 2, adjust the
number upwards; a character needing a roll of 17 to hit
AC 2 would need an 18 to hit AC I, 19 to hit AC 0, and so
forth. Unless magic or silver weapons are needed to cause
damage (and not available), a roll of 20 will 
always hit,
and a roll of 1 will always miss!
A bonus of +1 should be added to the “to hit” die roll of
high level characters, for they have more training and ex-
perience in fighting. This bonus will apply to Fighters of 4th
level or above, to Clerics and Thieves of 5th level or above,
and to Magic-Users of 6th level or above.
Movement in Combat:
Combat movement is usually very short and quick. In a
combat situation, only short charges or retreats are al-
lowed. After combat is resolved, movement rates return to
normal. The movement speed for characters is:
Unarmored, unencumbered man:
40 feet per
melee round
Metal armored or encumbered man: 20 feet per
melee round
Metal armored, encumbered man: 10 feet per
melee round
To determine a monster’s movement speed in combat,
divide its base movement speed by 3.
Note: Movement speed may be different if the optional en-
cumbrance rule is used.
When dice are used to randomly determine a number, the
type of dice used are abbreviated ‘d#’ (‘d4’ means a four-
sided die, ‘d6’ a six-sided, and so forth). If more than one is
rolled, the number required is placed before the ‘d’ (‘2d6’
means two six-sided dice). If any number is to be added to
the total of the dice, it is indicated afterward (‘d4 + 2’ means
to roll a four-sided die and add 2 to the total: ‘2d8 + 1’ will
thus give a number from 3 to 17). You will quickly get to
know all of these abbreviations, and may use them when
you design your own dungeon.
Become familiar with this module, then make whatever ad-
ditions or changes you feel are necessary for 
your cam-
paign. Once you are satisfied, gather the players together
and have them create their characters. This will take some
time, so at first, don’t plan on getting much playing done
unless there is a lot of time available. After each person has
rolled the numbers for his or her characteristics (Strength,
Intelligence, etc.), selected a class, and found how much
money he or she has to begin, you should introduce them
to the setting by reading the Background section to them. If
you wish, feel free to limit the classes your players may
choose as suits your setting. You might wish not to have
elves or halflings in the KEEP, or you might not want any
thieves as beginning characters. It is all up to you as DM to
decide the shape of the campaign. Likewise, you can opt
to give the player characters a special item of equipment
to begin with 
- possibly mules, a weapon, some trade
goods, or virtually anything of small value (within reason).
After you have explained the background, allow your
players to begin interacting with their characters. Give
them time to wander around the KEEP, learning what is
there, finding the limits of their freedom, and meeting the
other “inhabitants” of the place. They may quickly estab-
lish their base in the 
Traveler’s Inn, purchase their equip-
ment, and then visit the tavern - where they may gather
bits of information for their coming adventures. All of this
play, as well as what will come afterwards, requires that the
players play the personae (personalities) of the characters
that they will have throughout the length of the campaign,
much like an actor plays a role in a play. You, however,
have a far greater challenge and obligation! You not only
must order and create the world, you must also play the
part of each and every creature that the player characters
encounter. You must be gate guard and merchant, inn-
keeper and 
orc  oracle and madman as the situation dic-
tates. The role of DM is all-powerful, but it also makes many
demands. It is difficult to properly play the village idiot at
one moment and the wise man the next, the noble clergy-
man on one hand and the vile monster on the other. In one
role you must be cooperative, in the next uncaring and
non-commital, then foolish, then clever, and so on. Be pre-
pared!
Whether the first time you play or the next, the players will
set forth to find and explore the many 
Caves of Chaos. You
must describe the journey to the place and what the char-
acters see, and allow them to choose how they will go
about their adventuring. In such situations, the DM must be
a truly disinterested party, giving information as required
by questioning and proper action, but neither helping nor
hindering otherwise. When the players experience their first
encounter with a monster, you must be ready to play the
part fully. If the monster is basically unintelligent, you must
have it act accordingly. Make the encounter exciting with
the proper dramatics of the animal sort 
- including noises!
If the encounter is with an intelligent monster, it is up to the
DM to not only provide an exciting description but also to
correctly act the part of the monster. Rats, for instance, will
swarm chitteringly from their burrows 
- a wave of lice-
ridden hunger seeking to overrun the adventurers with
sheer numbers, but easily driven off squealing with blows
and fire. Goblins, on the other hand, will skulk and hide in
3

===== PAGE 6 =====
order to ambush and trap the party - fleeing from more
powerful foes, but always ready to set a new snare for the
unwary character.
If all of this seems too difficult, never fear! Just as your
players are learning and gaining experience at D&D@
play, so too will you be improving your ability as a DM. The
work necessary to become a master at the art is great, far
greater than that necessary to be a top player, but the re-
wards are even greater. You will bring untold enjoyment to
many players in your role as DM, and all the while you will
have the opportunity to exercise your imagination and
creative ability to the fullest. May each of your dungeon
adventure episodes always be a wondrous experience!
HOW TO BE AN EFFECTIVE DUNGEON MASTER
As Dungeon Master, the beginner is faced with a difficult
problem. The DM is the most important person in the D&D@
game. He or she sets up and controls all situations, makes
decisions, and acts as the link between the players and the
world he or she has created. Perhaps the most common
question asked by a beginning Dungeon Master is, “What
do I do to run a game?” It is possible to read through the
rules and become slightly lost by all the things that must be
prepared or known before DMing a game.
Unlike most boardgames, D&D play relies on information,
both from the players and the DM. In boardgames, the way
the game is played is obvious. First one person moves, and
then another. Actions are limited and choices are few. In
this game, the action is only limited by the abilities of the
character, the imagination of the player, and the decisions
of the DM. The play will often go in unexpected directions
and the DM will sometimes be required to decide on situa-
tions not covered in the rules. The DM is the judge.
As a judge, moderator, or referee, the DM must constantly
deal with the players. Just as the referee of a sporting event,
the DM must be fair. He or she cannot be “out to get the
players”, nor should he or she be on their side all the time.
The DM must be 
neutral. If a party has played well and
succeeded, the DM should not punish them by sending
more and more monsters at them or thwart their plans; on
the other hand, if the players have acted foolishly, they
should get their “just rewards”. In combat, the DM should
play the monsters to the best of the monster’s ability. If the
creature is stupid, it may be easily tricked or may not al-
ways do the smartest thing. If the monster is clever or intelli-
gent, it will fight to its best advantage. The DM must be fair,
but the players must play wisely.
The DM is also the designer of the situations and must bear
in mind the abilities of his or her players. It is the job of the
DM to see that the situations and characters balance. If
things are too difficult, the players will become dis-
couraged; too easy and they will become bored. Is it pos-
sible for a good player to win, yet still be a challenge and a
risk in doing so? Is the amount of treasure gained equal to
the danger of trying to get it? As DM, much satisfaction
comes from watching players overcome a difficult situa-
tion. But they should do it on their own!
To defeat monsters and overcome problems, the DM must
be a dispenser of information. Again, he or she must be fair
- telling the party what it can see, but not what it cannot.
Questions will be asked by players, either of the DM or of
some character the party has encountered, and the DM
must decide what to say. Information should never be
given away that the characters have not found out 
-
secret doors may be missed, treasure or magic items over-
looked, or the wrong question asked of a townsperson. The
players must be allowed to make their own choices. There-
fore, it is important that the DM give accurate information,
but 
the choice of action is the players’ decision.
Throughout all this  - making decisions, playing roles,
handling monsters - the DM must remember that he or she
is in control. The DM is the judge, and it is his or her game./
The DM should listen to the players and weigh their argu-
ments fairly when disagreements arise, but the final deci-
sion belongs to the DM. The Dungeon Master’s word is law!
TIME
The Dungeon Master is responsible for keeping a track of
game time. Inside the dungeon, a normal turn is ten
minutes long (adventure time). A normal turn is determined
by the distance the slowest party member can travel, using
the 
CHARACTER MOVEMENT TABLE in the  Dungeons &
Dragons Basic Set rulebook. For example, a party whose
slowest member moves at 120feet per turn, would travel 120
feet in a turn. When the party has mapped 120 feet of dun-
geon, one turn has passed.
lf fighting should occur, the time reference shifts 
to melee
rounds  of 10 seconds each. Melee rounds are used to simu-
late the quick exchange of blows in combat. For conveni-
ence, a DM should consider one entire melee* to last  
long as one normal turn (that is, 10 minutes), no matter how
many melee rounds the combat actually took. The extra
time is spent recovering one’s breath, bandaging wounds,
resharpening blunted weapons, etc. 
The 
actual (clock-time) length of a turn varies. A turn might
take longer than ten actual minutes, especially if a long
combat has taken place. On the other hand, a turn may be
quite short in actual time, if the party is heading back
through a familiar area.
In general, a party should rest and sleep eight hours every
24. Cautious player characters will sleep in shifts, with a
guard always awake.
Remember that player characters heal 1-3 points naturally
every 24 hours of full rest.
DIVIDING TREASURE AND COMPUTING EXPERIENCE
After the party leaves the dungeon safely, all surviving
player characters should divide the treasure and be
awarded their experience points. Division of treasure is the
players’ responsibility. Awarding experience points is the
Dungeon Master’s responsibility.
Ideally, treasure should be divided equally among surviv-
ing player characters, with retainers* usually receiving a
share (minus any advance payment already given them).
Players may decide to only give magical items to charac-
ter classes that could use them. For example, a fighter
should take a magical sword as part of his or her share in
preference to a scroll.
Non-magical treasure is usually divided first, since it is
easier to divide equally. It is seldom possible to divide
magic items equally. A suggested solution to division of
magic items is to have each character roll percentile dice
and let the highest score have first pick, second highest
score second pick, and so on until there are no more
magical items. Retainers may, or may not, be given an
equal chance for a magic item. If they are excluded, a DM
should note the fact and take it into account when it next
comes time to test the retainers’ loyalty.
For example, a party consisting of a fighter, a magic-user,
and a retainer (all first level) returns safely to the Keep. Their
recovered treasure equals 520 gold pieces, 1000 silver
pieces, a necklace worth 400 gold pieces, a sword 
+I and
a ring of water walking. The total value of all non-magical
treasure is 1020 gold pieces. Without selling the necklace, it
would be impossible for the party to split the treasure
4

===== PAGE 7 =====
equally. The two player characters compromise by giving
the necklace to their retainer, to insure his loyalty with a
greater share of treasure. They each take only 310 gold
pieces, but the magic-user keeps the ring and the fighter
keeps the sword.
Experience points are awarded by the DM to player
characters on the basis of non-magical treasure recovered
and monsters killed or overcome. Experience points for
recovered treasure are calculated at one experience
point for every gold piece worth of non-magical treasure.
Experience points for monsters overcome or killed is
calculated by using the 
Experience Points for Monsters
chart in the DUNGEONS & DRAGONS Basic Set rulebook.
Unless a player character has earned extra treasure
through the use of his or her class abilities (for example, a
thief who steals treasure which he did not report to the
party), the DM should  
divide the experience points
earned through treasure recovery equally among all sur-
viving party members. Since, in the above example, the
entire party recovered 1020 gold pieces worth of non-
magical treasure, the fighter and the magic-user each re-
ceive 340 experience points for the treasure recovered. The
retainer receives 1/2 normal experience, since he was only
following orders, and not doing his own thinking. The re-
tainer thus receives only 170 experience points for re-
covered treasure.
To recover the treasure, it was necessary for the party mem-
bers to kill 19 orcs,  7 skeletons, and an ogre. The party
should receive 10 points of experience for each orc  killed,
as orcs  have 1 hit die. The party should receive 5 experi-
ence points for each skeleton. For killing the ogre, they
should receive 125 experience points, since it has 4 + 1 hit
dice. The total experience points for defeating monsters
would be 350. When this is divided, the magic-user and
fighter each receive 117 additional experience points. The
retainer  receives only one-half, 59 additional experience
points. The total experience for each player character is
457 (340 + 117) experience points apiece. The retainer re-
ceives 229 experience points.
When enough experience points are accumulated, a
player character rises to the next higher level, and gains
the benefits of that level (an additional hit die, a new spell,
etc.). Wealth can be used to buy new equipment, to pay for
everyday expenses, and to hire retainers.
PREPARATION FOR THE USE OF THE MODULE
The use of this module first requires that the DM be familiar
with its contents. Therefore, the first step is to completely
read through the module, referring to the maps provided to
learn the locations of the various features. A second (and
third!) reading will be helpful in learning the nature of the
monsters, their methods of attack and defense, and the
treasures guarded.
Certain buildings of the KEEP will frequently be visited by
the adventurers (such as the Travelers Inn, Tavern, and Pro-
visioner). Floor plans are very useful in visualizing these
areas. For information on their preparation, refer to the sec-
tion entitled “Designing Floor Plans” near the end of the
module.
Once you are familiar with the areas described in the
module and have drawn whatever additional plans you
wish, assist the players in preparing their characters by
reading them the section entitled 
Background. This will set
the stage for the game.
After the background is given, the players may prepare
their characters. Full details are given in the 
D&D  BASIC
SET rulebook. A written record of each character should be
kept by the players.
As an alternative to rolling up new characters, the players
may (at the DM’s option) select characters from the NPC*
list in this module. Note that the personalities given are for
the DM’s use with NPC’s only, and are not to be used by the
players.
Before the Players enter the KEEP, the DM may privately give
each Player one rumor about the CAVES OF CHAOS. This in-
formation may be shared or kept secret, as the 
players
wish. The DM should avoid interfering with their choices
whatever the result. Additional information may be
gathered in the KEEP itself; use the 
Rumors Table in the “DM
Notes About the Keep” for this purpose, or create your own
based on the CAVES.
To start an adventure outside the KEEP, the players must de-
cide on an order of march - who will be in the first rank,
middle, and at the rear of the party. This should be drawn
on a sheet of paper and given to the DM for his or her refer-
ence. Any changes in the order (due to injuries, special
procedures, etc.) should be noted on the sheet as they
occur. In a standard 10’ wide corridor, the most common
arrangement is two adventurers, side by side, in each rank;
however, three characters could occupy a single rank if all
of their weapons were small (such as daggers and hand
axes).
One player in the group should be selected as leader and
‘caller’ for the party; another one or two should take care of
necessary mapping. INDIVIDUAL PLAYERS MAY DECIDE ON
THEIR ACTIONS, but it is the ‘caller’ who gives the DM the de-
tails on the party’s course of action (such as “We’ll head
down the eastern corridor.“). The caller should discuss the
party’s actions with the players, and inform the DM of the
decisions of the group. When a player speaks and in-
dicates that an action is being taken, 
it has begun - even
if the player changes his mind. Use your discretion in these
cases, and remember that the DM has the final say in all
matters.
The players should use graph paper to map the areas
being explored. Have them indicate which direction is
north, and use compass directions to describe details and
direction of travel (“We’ll go west and turn north at the next
intersection”). Use the same method to describe areas to
them (“You see a corridor which goes about 30’ south and
then turns west”). Be sure to keep your descriptions ac-
curate, though you may say such things as ‘about forty
feet’, especially in open areas or when describing irregular
5

===== PAGE 8 =====
surfaces. Players will often show you their map and ask “IS
this right?” Do not correct their mistakes unless the error
would be obvious in the eyes of the adventurers, and re-
member that, in most cases, maps do not have to be exact.
Encourage good mapping skills and an attention to detail,
and avoid falling into a rut of continually answering map
questions.
Exploration of the CAVES OF CHAOS will take more than one
game session. When the players want to stop play, they
must find an exit and (preferably) return to the KEEP. You
may divide treasure and award experience when this
occurs. Remember to make adjustments to the areas they
visited 
- the monsters may build new defenses, reoccupy
areas that were cleaned out, and so forth.
If the adventurers wish to stop exploring for a while and
take a rest period (for example, the customary 8 hours rest
each night), they should tell the DM exactly where they
plan to stay and who is standing guard. Just as with march-
ing order, it is important that the guard and sleeping posi-
tions be noted on paper, since this may be crucial if and
when a monster approaches.
During play, make careful notes on the monsters killed, the
amount of treasure taken, experience gained, and any
other details of interest. It is then a simple matter to
compute the totals at the end of a play session. See the
section of this module entitled “DIVIDING TREASURE AND
COMPUTING EXPERIENCE” for more information.
BACKGROUND
The Realm of mankind is narrow and constricted. Always
the forces of Chaos press upon its borders, seeking to en-
slave its populace, rape its riches, and steal its treasures. If
it were not for a stout few, many in the Realm would indeed
fall prey to the evil which surrounds them. Yet, there are al-
ways certain exceptional and brave members of humanity,
as well as similar individuals among its allies 
- dwarves,
elves, and halflings - who rise above the common level
and join battle to stave off the darkness which would other-
wise overwhelm the land. Bold adventurers from the Realm
set off for the Borderlands to seek their fortune. It is these ad-
venturers who, provided they survive the challenge, carry
the battle to the enemy. Such adventurers meet the forces
of Chaos in a testing ground where only the fittest will return
to relate the tale. Here, these individuals will become
skilled in their profession, be it fighter or magic-user, cleric
or thief. They will be tried in the fire of combat, those who re-
turn, hardened and more fit. True, some few who do survive
the process will turn from Law and good and serve the
masters of Chaos, but most will remain faithful and ready to
fight chaos wherever it threatens to infect the Realm.
You are indeed members of that exceptional class, ad-
venturers who have journeyed to the KEEP ON THE BORDER-
LANDS in search of fame and fortune. Of course you are in-
experienced, but you have your skills and a heart that cries
out for adventure. You have it in you to become great, but
you must gain experience and knowledge and greater
skill. There is much to learn, and you are willing and eager
to be about it! Each of you has come with everything which
could possibly be given you to help. Now you must fend for
yourselves; your fate is in your hands, for better or worse.
Ahead, up the winding road, atop a sheer-wailed mount of
stone, looms the great KEEP. Here, at one of civilization’s
strongholds between good lands and bad, you will base
yourselves and equip for forays against the wicked mon-
sters who lurk in the wilds. Somewhere nearby, amidst the
dark forests and tangled fens, are the Caves of Chaos
where fell creatures lie in wait. All this you know, but before
you dare adventure into such regions you must become
acquainted with the other members of your group, for each
life will depend upon the ability of the others to cooperate
against the common foe. Now, before you enter the grim
fortress, is the time for introductions and an exchange of in-
formation, for fate seems to have decreed that you are to
become an adventurous band who must pass through
many harrowing experiences together on the path which
leads towards greatness.
START:
You have travelled for many days, leaving the Realm and
entering into the wilder area of the Borderlands. Farms and
towns have become less frequent and travellers few. The
road has climbed higher as you enter the forested and
mountainous country.
You now move up a narrow, rocky track. A sheer wall of nat-
ural stone is on your left, the path falling away to a steep
cliff on the right. There is a small widening ahead, where
the main gate to the KEEP is. The blue-clad men-at-arms*
who guard the entrance shout at you to give your names
and state your business. All along the wall you see curious
faces peering down at you  
- eager to welcome new
champions of Law, but ready with crossbow and pole arm*
to give another sort of welcome to enemies.
(DM  Note: Have each player identify his or her character’s
name and profession. Have them answer in their own words
why they seek entrance to the place. If the answer sounds
unnatural, assume the role of the corporal of the watch,
and begin to cross-examine the speaker. Now is the time to
make the players realize that whatever they say  
- as
speech or relating their actions - will be noted by you, as
Dungeon Master, and acted upon accordingly in whatever
role is appropriate to the situation. A courteous and full
reply might well win a friend amongst the soldiers who
might be of aid sometime. Rudeness and discourtesy may ,
bring suspicion and enemies to trouble the course of things
within the otherwise safe base area. When you are satisfied
that the scene is played out, have the group enter.)
DM Notes About The Keep:
1.  This whole place is well-organized for security and for
defense. In time of need, many civilians will arm and
help man the walls, while non-combatants bring am-
munition, food, and water to the walls and help the
wounded. Sentries are alert. A party of guards patrols
the walls irregularly, and a commander checks every
half hour to hour. It is very unlikely that persons can
enter or leave without being seen, unless magic is
used. (You can have magical traps placed in key
areas to shout “ALARM” whenever an invisible creature
passes within 
10'  or so!)
Within the Keep itself, the townspeople are generally
law-abiding and honest. Boorishness and ill manners
will be frowned upon. If any member of a party should
be caught in a criminal act, the alarm will be sounded
instantly. Citizens will try to prevent the escape of any
lawbreakers (without sacrificing their lives) until the
guard arrives in 1-2 turns. If met with resistance, the
guard will not hesitate to use force, even killing if they
must. Those offenders taken prisoner will be locked in
the dungeons under the Keep and punished for their
crimes.
+ indicates a ballista,  a huge, heavy crossbow
manned by two men. It fires like a crossbow, but has
a range of 480 feet, hits as if it were fired by a fighter
of Ist-3rd level, and does 2 six-sided dice of dam-
age plus two points (4-14 points of damage per hit).
6

===== PAGE 9 =====
Each ballista has 12 missiles. They may only be fired
once every four rounds (requiring 3 rounds to load
and 1 to fire).
+El indicates a light catapult with a range of 241 to 480
feet which fires half as often as a ballista (once per 8
rounds). Each requires two crewmen to operate, hits
as if fired by a normal man, but can hit 1-6 targets in
any close group (or one large target) for 1 six-sided
die of damage each (6 dice if one large target).
There is ammunition for six catapult shots per ma-
chine.
II. Floor plans might be useful. Note that most areas have
two or more stories, and there is furniture in the rooms
not shown. Also left out are details of heating, light, and
descriptive touches such as color, rafters, decoration,
etc. If you have time, floor plans and detailing of each
area might be very helpful, exceptionally so in places
frequented by the adventurers. See the appendix
covering this near the end of the module.
Ill. Information from inhabitants of the KEEP might be
gained by player characters. You may give one rumor
(at random, using d20)  to each player as starting in-
formation Other rumors may be keyed to other persons
in the KEEP. For example: “Talking with the Taverner
(#15) might reveal either rumor #18 or #19;  he will give
the true rumor if his reaction is good.”
Do not give out all the rumors. You may add whatever
false rumors you wish, but adding to the amount of true
information is not recommended.
The false rumors are noted by an ‘F’ after the number.
1.
2.F
3.
4.
5.
6.F
7.
8.
9.F
10.F
II.
12.
13.
14.F
15.F
16.
17.
18.
19.F
20.
RUMOR TABLE
A merchant, imprisoned in the caves, will reward
his rescuers.
A powerful magic-user will destroy all cave in-
vaders.
Tribes of different creatures live in different
caves.
An ogre sometimes helps the cave dwellers.
A magic wand was lost in the caves’ area.
All of the cave entrances are trapped.
If you get lost, beware the eater of men!
Altars are very dangerous.
A fair maiden is imprisoned within the caves.
“Bree-yark” is goblin-language for “we sur-
render”!
Beware of treachery from within the party.
The big dog-men live very high in the caves.
There are hordes of tiny dog-men in the lower
caves.
Piles of magic armor are hoarded in the southern
caves.
The bugbears  in the caves are afraid of dwarves!
Lizard-men live in the marshes.
An elf once disappeared across the marshes,
Beware the mad hermit of the north lands.
Nobody has ever returned from an expedition to
the caves.
There is more than one tribe of orcs  within the
caves.
IV. Entrance to the Inner Bailey* can be gained if the ad-
venturers perform a heroic act in behalf of the KEEP, if
they bring back an exceptional trophy or valuable
prisoners, or if they contribute a valuable magic item
or 1,000 or more gold pieces to the place. They will be
invited to a feast and revel, and then closely watched
and carefully questioned. If the Castellan’ likes the
looks of the group, and his assistants agree, he will ask
them to perform a special mission (suitable to their
ability, but difficult 
- use the area map or the Caves of
Chaos to find a suitable goal). On the other hand, if
they are rude or behave badly, he will simply retire
early, ending the revel, and they will never be aided or
invited back. If they try to steal or are threatening, the
group will be attacked and killed immediately [if this
can be managed, of course).
Groups sent on a mission will be 
blessed and given up
to 100  g.p. each for any needed supplies. If they
succeed, they will be given passes to the Inner Bailey
and can ask the Castellan for aid if there is a major foe
to overcome (in the 
Caves’ area). He will send a mini-
mum of one corporal and 3 archers in plate, or at maxi-
mum the sergeant, a corporal, and a dozen 
men-at-
arms.
V. After the normal possibilities of this module are ex-
hausted, you might wish to continue to center the
action of your campaign around the KEEP by making it
the base for further adventures which you may devise.
For example (assuming that the group has done good
service for the Castellan), have a large force of bandits
move into the area, and then appoint the group to
command an expedition of KEEP troops, mercenaries,
and so on to drive them away. Or the party might be-
come “traders” operating out of the KEEP, hoping to
find adventures as they travel in the surrounding area
(for wilderness adventures see the 
D&D@ EXPERT SET].
7

===== PAGE 10 =====
AREAS OF THE KEEP
1. MAIN GATE: Two towers 30’ high with battlements*,
flank a gatehouse 20’ high. All have holes for bow and
crossbow fire. A deep crevice in front of the place is
spanned by a drawbridge (usually up). There is a
portcullis’ at the entry and large gates at the far end of
the passage. The passage is about 10’ wide and high,
the ceiling above pierced with murder holes*, and
walls to either side slitted for archery. It is obvious that
the building is constructed of great blocks of the hard-
est granite, undoubtedly common throughout the en-
tire fortress. 
 Two men-at-arms (AC 3, F I, hp 5, #AT I,
D 1-6, ML 10) will approach when the drawbridge is
lowered and the portcullis raised. Each is clad in plate
mail and carries a pole arm*. They require that persons
entering the KEEP put their weapons away, and then
will escort them through the short tunnel into area 3..
2. FLANKING TOWERS: Atop each tower are four cross-
bowmen with crossbows cocked and ready to fire.
Each is clad in chain mail (AC 5), wearing a sword and
dagger, and has a shield (AC 4 when picked up) near-
by. (AC 5 or 4, F I, hp 4, #AT 1 or 1/2 with crossbow, D 1-6,
ML 10.) Inside each tower are 12 other men-at-arms, four
being “on-duty” and armored and armed as the men-
at-arms on the tower tops. The other eight in the tower
are resting, and it will take one full turn for these men to
ready themselves for battle. They are exactly like the
others, except instead of crossbows, they carry long
bows. (AC 5 or 4, F I, hp 4, 
#AT  I, D 1-6, ML 10.) The three
floors of these towers will contain supplies of bolts and
arrows, spears, rocks, and several barrels of oil (all for
hurling down on attackers). There will also be pallets*
for sleeping, pegs with clothing belonging to the
soldiers, and some small tables, stools, and benches.
Each man-at-arms will have (d6) copper pieces and
(d4) silver pieces on his person.
3. ENTRY YARD: This narrow place is paved. All entrants,
save those of the garrison, will be required to dismount
and stable their animals (area 4., below). The 
corporal
of the watch is here. He is dressed in plate mail and
carries a shield, with sword and dagger at his waist.
(AC 2, F 2, hp 15, #AT I, D 2-7; his sword is a 
+1 magic
weapon, ML II .) The corporal is rather grouchy, with a
low charisma, but he admires outspoken, brave
fighters and is easily taken in by a pretty girl. Beside
him is a man in robes (a scribe) who records the name
of each person who enters or leaves, and flanking
each man is another man-at-arms in plate with pole
arms as noted in 
I., above. (AC 3, F I, hp 5, #AT 1, D 1-6,
ML 10.) When dismounted, lackeys* will come from
area 4. (the stable) to take the mounts or mules. Any
goods which are not carried by the adventurers will be
stored in area 5. (the warehouse). Another lackey will
then show travelers to the Traveler’s Inn.
4. COMMON STABLE: This long building is about 15’ high,
with a 3’ parapet* atop its flat roof, so that it can be
used in defense of the gate. The  gateside  wall is
pierced for archery. There are always 5-8 (d4 + 4)
lackeys inside tending to horses and gear. Each is un-
armored (AC 9) but can fight with various available
weapons (pitch forks and the like 
- treat as pole arms)
and each has 1-4 hit points. There will be various light
horses (AC 7, HD 2, hp 8 each, #AT 2, D I-411-4, ML 7)  and
draft horses (AC 7, HD 2 + 1,  hp 9 each, #AT 0) here, 2-8 of
each, as well as 1-4 mules.
5. COMMON WAREHOUSE: Visiting merchants and other
travelers who have quantities of goods are required to
keep their materials here until they are either sold to
the persons at the KEEP or taken elsewhere. The build-
ing is the same as the stable (4., above) with respect to
height, parapet, etc. Its double doors are chained and
padlocked, and the 
corporal of the watch must be
called to gain entry, as he has the keys. Inside are two
wagons, a cart, many boxes, barrels, and bales  
-
various food items, cloth, arrows, bolts, salt, and two
tuns’ of wine. (Average value is 100 gold pieces per
wagon-load).
6. BAILIFF’S TOWER: The superintendent (or bailiff) of the
outer bailey* of the fortress lives here. (AC 1, F 3, hp 22,
#AT  I, D 2-7 due to sword +1, ML 12.) He is wearing
magic plate mail +1 or wields a sword +1, and is also
able to use a longbow which is hanging on the wall. He
and the scribe share offices on the lower floor. Their
quarters are on the second story. (Usual furnishings of
bed, chest, armoire*, table, chairs, rug, etc.) (The bailiff
has 3d6 gold pieces with him always, the scribe has
2d6 silver pieces and d4 gold pieces in his purse. There
are 50 gold pieces hidden in the bailiff’s old boots in
the armoire*, and hanging on his wall is a quiver with
20 arrows, 3 of which are magic 
arrows +1. The scribe
has a jewelled  ink pot worth 100 gold pieces, but it is
dirty and ink covered, looks worthless, and is on his
table in plain sight.) The third floor is a storage area,
and the fourth story quarters twelve men-at-arms. Six
are armored in leather and shield (AC 6) with pole arm
and hand axe, the other six have chain mail (AC 5),
crossbow, and sword and serve as the escort of the
bailiff from time to time. (F I, hp 4, 
#AT  I, D 1-6, ML IO.)
Each carries 2d6 copper pieces and 1d6 silver pieces.
Their room contains pallets, pegs with cloaks and other
clothing, two long tables with benches, a supply of 180
bolts, and several dozen large rocks. The whole tower is
40’ high, with a 5’ tall battlement atop it. All walls are
pierced for archery.
7. PRIVATE APARTMENTS: Special quarters are available
for well-to-do families, rich merchants, guildmasters,
and the like. The five small apartments along the south
wall are occupied by families of persons dwelling
within the Outer Bailey of the KEEP. The two large ones
(indicated by  
7a. and 7b.) currently house a jewel
merchant and a priest:
a. Jewel Merchant: This normal man and his wife are
guarded by a pair of 2nd level
fighters in chainmail and shield with
sword and dagger. (AC 4, F 2, hp 17,
12, 
#AT  I, D l-6, ML 8.) The four are
lodged in the eastern portion of the
building, the merchant and his wife
being on the upper floor most of the
time. Each guard commands a
huge dog trained to kill. (AC 6, HD 3,
hp 12, II, #AT I, D 1-6, MV 
(60’) Save
F 2, ML 9.) The merchant has a
locked iron box with 200 platinum
pieces and 100 gold pieces inside.
Secreted in his belt are 10 gems of
100 gold piece value each. He will
buy gems at 60% to 90% (d4 x 10 +
50%) of value. He sells at 110% to
140% (d4 x 10 + 100%) of value. His
wife wears a jeweled bracelet,
necklace, and earrings (600, 1,200,
and 300 gold piece value respec-
tively), also available for sale as per
gems. They are awaiting a caravan
back to more civilized lands. All per-
sons here have  3d6 silver pieces
each upon their person. The 
apart-
8

===== PAGE 11 =====
ment is well-furnished, but there is
nothing of particular interest or
value, except for the coins, gems,
and jewelry noted.
b.  Priest: The western portion houses the jovial priest who
8.
9.
is taking advantage of his stopover at the KEEP
to discuss theology with learned folk and to
convert others. Everyone speaks well of him, al-
though the two 
acolytes with him are avoided,
as they never speak - the priest says they must
follow vows of silence until they attain priestly
standing. His well-appointed chambers are
comfortably furnished and guests are always
welcomed with a cozy fire and plenty of ale or
wine. The priest is a very fine companion and
an excellent listener. He does not press his
religious beliefs upon any unwilling person. He
is outspoken in his hatred of evil, and if ap-
proached by a party of adventurers seeking the
Caves of Chaos, he will certainly accompany
them. He has plate mail +1 and a shield +1
(AC -1) and a mace +1, and has a Dexterity of 15
(thus the low AC). He also has a magic cleric
scroll with a  
hold person and a silence, 15’
radius spell on it. He appears very robust (18 hit
points), as do his assistants. The latter wear
chain mail, carry shields and have maces. (AC
4, C I, hp 7 each, #AT  1, D 1-6, ML 7.)  (Note: All
are chaotic and evil, being in the KEEP to spy
and defeat those seeking to gain experience
by challenging the monsters in the 
Caves of
Chaos. Once in the caves the priest will use a
cause light wounds (does 2-7 points of damage
to the creature touched, a normal “to hit” roll
must be made to touch the victim) or a light
spell as needed to hinder and harm adventur-
ers. Betrayal will always occur during a crucial
encounter with monsters.) Each cleric carries
4d6 silver pieces, and each wears a gold chain
worth 100 gold pieces (the 
priest’s has a blood-
stone gem worth 500 gold pieces in addition). (A
small sack hidden in the priest’s chair contains
30 each of platinum, gold, electrum, silver, and
copper pieces, plus one jeweled clasp worth
300 gold pieces. These are for bribes for sub.
version or to use to gain freedom if necessary.)
SMITHY AND ARMORER: This building is about 20’ high,
with the usual 5’ parapet above and walls pierced for
defense. The lower floor is occupied by a forge, bel-
lows, and other items. Here horses and mules are shod,
weapons made, armor repaired and similar work
done. The smith is also an armorer, and has two assist-
ants. (Smith: AC 7 from leather armor, 
F 1,  hp 11, #AT  1,  D
1-6; he uses his hammer as a weapon, ML 8. His two as-
sistants: AC 8, LVL 0, hp 5 each, #AT 1, D 1-6; they will
pick up any weapons handy if need be, ML 8.) There
are 2 swords, 1 mace, a suit of man-sized chain mail,
and II finished spears in the shop. In the second story
are rooms where the smith, his family, and his assistants
live. (The rooms have normal furnishings, but a jar
hidden in the smith’s bedroom holds 27  
electrum
pieces.) The smith carries d4 gold pieces, and each as-
sistant has 2d6 silver pieces.
PROVISIONER: This low building houses a shop where
all of the equipment needed for dungeon adventurers
(as listed in the rulebook) are sold. He does not sell
weapons other than spears, daggers, arrows and bolts.
He has a few (7) shields, but does not sell armor or
mounts. He will direct any persons interested in such
items to the trader next door. Prices are as shown in the
10.
11.
9
rules. He will buy equipment from adventurers at 50% of
listed price. The provisioner is a normal man: in time of
need he has leather armor and shield (AC 6) and will
man the walls or otherwise fight with a spear. (In the
shop he is AC 9, LVL 0, hp 3, 
#AT  1, D 1-6, ML 7.) His wife
and two children live in a small apartment in the place.
He carries d6 gold pieces. He has a strong box with 100
gold pieces, 16  
electrum  pieces, and 30 copper
pieces.
TRADER: This place deals in all armor, weapons, and
large quantities of goods such as salt, spices, cloth,
rare woods, etc. The trader is very interested in obtain-
ing furs. (Prices are as per the rulebook, purchases 
from
adventurers are at 50% of listed cost, except for furs
which will be bought by him at whatever their stated
value is 
if the seller demands.) He is a normal man (AC
9. LVL 0, hp 2, #AT  1,  D 1-6, ML 7); his two sons are likewise
(AC 9, LVL 0, hp 3 each, #AT 1, D l-6, ML 7). All have
leather armor and shields (AC 6) and pole arms and
swords for use when necessary. [Hidden under the floor-
boards of their small apartment are 500 gold pieces
and 1,110 silver pieces. Each carries 2d6 gold pieces in
his purse.)
LOAN BANK: Here anyone can change money or gems
for a 10% fee. The banker will also keep a person’s
wealth stored safely at no charge if it is left for at least
one month, otherwise there is a 10% fee. Loans at an
interest rate of 10% per month can be obtained for up
to 5 gold pieces with no security deposit; over 5 gold
pieces requires some item of at least twice the value of
the loan. A sign on the shop states clearly that this
place is under direct protection of the KEEP, and there
is always a man-at-arms in chain mail with long bow
and sword watching the place from tower 
12.. (AC 5, F
I, hp 4, #AT  1, D l-6, ML 10.) (The banker is a retired 3rd
level fighter (AC 9, F 3, hp 12, #AT  1, D 1-6, ML 9) with a
sword handy, and plate and shield (AC 2) stored in his
apartment above. He carries 6 platinum pieces and 12
gold pieces with him.) There is a scrawny old clerk in
the place as well (2nd level magic-user, 5 
hit points,
with sleep and ventriloquism spells ready) who
typically handles transactions. A hired mercenary
fighter (AC 3, F 1, hp 7, 
#AT  1 or 1/2 with crossbow, D 1-6,
ML 8) in plate mail and armed with battle axe and
crossbow is on guard inside the door. Displayed for
sale are the following items:
1 carved ivory tusk - price 50 g.p.
1 silver cup - 20 g.p.
1 crystal decanter* - price 45 g.p. (actual worth 10
g.p.)
1 jade ring - price 250 g.p. (actual worth 400 g.p.)
1 dagger with jeweled scabbard - price 600 g.p.
1 fur-trimmed cape - price 75 g.p.
3 blank vellum* books - price 20 g.p. each
1 gold &silver belt - price 90 g.p.
1 set of thief’s tools - price 100 g.p. (actual worth 35
g.p.)
1 iron box with secret lock - price 50 g.p.
The strong room of the place is in the cellar. It is pro-
tected by a locked iron door which leads to a small
vault with 12 compartments each protected by locks
with hidden poison needles (save versus Poison at 
+1
or die). These compartments hold the following items:
#1,
 #4, #11  empty
#2 has 277 g.p. and 1 gem worth 500 g.p.
#3 has a gold altar service set forth 6,000 g.p.

===== PAGE 12 =====
#5
#6
#7
#8
#9
is trapped with a sleeping gas - no save, sleep for
3 turns; characters above 4th level save vs. Poison
to avoid effect.
has 1,000 each platinum, gold, electrum, silver and
copper pieces.
has four pit vipers (AC 6, HD 1 
l , hp 5 each, #AT 1,  D
1-4 plus poison, MV (30’) Save F 1, ML  7).
has 3 gems of 1,000 g.p. value, 4 of 5OO g.p.,  II of
100 g.p., 25 of 50g.p., and 18 of 10 g.p. value.
has an arrow trap which will always hit anyone in
front if its door - 4 arrows each doing 1-6 points of
damage (Divide arrows amongst persons in front).
12.
13.
14.
15.
#10  has an alabaster and gold statue worth 3,000 g.p.
in a rare wood and silk case worth 600 g.p.
#I2 has a sack with 58 platinum pieces and 91 elec-
trum pieces in it.
(Empty compartments indicate funds out on loan. Bold-
faced numbers are those belonging to the banker.)
WATCH TOWER: This 45’ tall tower has all of the usual
defensive devices. It houses six men-at-arms in chain
mail (AC 5) with bows and swords, 6 others in leather
and carrying shields (AC 6) and pole arms 
(F  I, hp 4
each, #AT I, D 1-6, ML IO), and the captain of the watch
(AC 2, F 3, hp 20, #AT  1, D 2-7 with dagger +1, or 3-8 with
sword +2,  ML II). The captain lives on the first floor
(with the usual furnishings, but he has a silver flagon
and tankard worth 750 g.p.). He is known to carry quite
a bit of money with him (20 platinum pieces, II gold
pieces, 8 silver pieces), although the soldiers have only
small coins 
(2d6  silver pieces each). The second and
third floors are barracks for the men-at-arms. The upper
story holds a supply of 200 arrows, many rocks, 2 barrels
of oil, and 24 spears.
FOUNTAIN SQUARE: There is a large, gushing fountain
in the center of the square. On holidays, local farmers
and tradesmen set up small booths to sell their goods in
this place.
TRAVELERS INN: This long, low structure has five small
private rooms and a large common sleeping room for
a full dozen. (Servants and the like always sleep in the
stables, 4., of course.) Private rooms cost 1 
g.p.  per
night, but sleeping in the common room is only 1 silver
piece per night. The innkeeper and his family live in a
small loft above the inn. They are obviously normal
persons of no fighting ability. This building is some 18’
high.
TAVERN: This place is the favorite of visitors and inhabi-
tants of the KEEP alike. The food is excellent, the drinks
generous and good. The place is always active, with
4-16 
(4d4)  patrons at any time of day or night. The bill of
fare reads:
ALE 1 e.p. SOUP 1 s.p.
SMALL BEER 1 s.p. STEW 1 e.p.
WINE 1 e.p. ROAST FOWL 1 g.p.
HONEY MEAD 1 g.p.
BARK TEA 1 s.p.
ROAST JOINT  2 g.p.
1 e.p.
BREAD 1 c.p./slice CHEESE 1 s.p./wedge
PUDDING 1 s.p./bowl FRUIT 1 s.p.
The barkeep, if talking with a good customer and drink-
ing to his health, will sometimes talk about the lands
around the keep (1 drink per story, half of which may be
true). He is known to hate small beer and love honey
mead. There is a 50% chance that 2-5 (d4 + I) of the
patrons will be mercenary men-at-arms looking for
work. (AC 6, F 1, hp 5 each, #AT I, D 1-6, ML 7.) Each will
have leather armor 
& shield, and sword and dagger;
16.
17.
GUILD HOUSE: When members of any guild (merchants,
craft, artisans, etc.) travel to this area, they are offered
the hospitality of this two-story building. This is a fee col-
lection and administragive post, and the staff is careful
to observe what traffic passes through the KEEP. Any
trader who passes through must pay guild dues of 5% of
the value of his merchandise, but he then gains the
protection of the Guild House, assuming he is not a
regular member. Craftsmen and artisans must gain
Guild permission to enter or leave the land, paying a
fee of 2d6 gold pieces either way (depending on the
value of their trade). The lower floor contains the Guild
Master’s and his two clerks’ quarters and an office (all
sparsely furnished, but the Master has a gold ring worth
50 g.p., and 2d6 g.p. in his purse; each clerk has d4
each of gold, silver, and copper pieces. A strongbox
under the Master’s bed holds 712 gold pieces.) They
are normal men (AC 9, LVL 0, hp 4 each, 
#AT  1,  D 1-6, ML
7), with chain mail (AC 5),  crossbows, and swords kept in
a closet for quick use. There are two servants who will
not fight and who have quarters in the cellar. The upper
floor is divided into two private rooms and a dormitory
for guests. The Master is very influential, and his favor or
dislike will be reflected in the treatment of persons by
fortress personnel. Four men-at-arms with leather armor
and shields and armed with spear and sword are on
duty at all times, two on the first floor, two above (AC 6, F
1, hp 6 each, #AT I, D 1-6, ML 8). They are fanatical
Guildsmen who will obey any order from the Master.
Guests of the Guild eat here. Drinking is frowned upon.
CHAPEL: The spiritual center of the Keep is opposite the
Guild House. This building has a peaked roof two stories
tall; the interior is one large room. The altar is located
at the eastern end, with a colored glass window (worth
350 g.p. intact) above it; the window is 20’ tall and 8’
wide. An offering box is fastened securely atop a heavy
pedestal in the southeast corner; it contains l-100 c.p.
all other desired equipment must be purchased by the
employer, including missile weapons, and dungeon
gear. Wages for duty include all gear purchased, room
and board, and 1 
s.p.  per day of service. If no gear is
purchased, the cost rises to 1 g.p.  per day. (Note that a
mere spear or minor equipment is considered as no
gear.) It is always necessary to buy mercenaries a drink
before discussing terms of employment. There is a 10%
chance that each of the following persons will be in the
tavern at any given time:
CORPORAL OF THE WATCH
CAPTAIN OF THE WATCH
BAILIFF (see 
6., above)
PRIEST (see 7b., above)
2-4 WATCHMEN (see 12., above)
SERGEANT OF THE GUARD (see 18., below)
WANDERER (a 2nd or 3rd level fighter, dwarf, elf, or
halfling  as the DM decides, with complete equipment
for adventuring; such a wanderer is 75% likely to join
an expedition if offered 25% of the treasure gained, but
1 in 6 will be of chaotic alignment).
The taverner is a normal man (AC 9, LVL 0, hp 6, #AT 1,  D
1-6, ML 7), as are his son and the pot boy’ (AC 9, LVL 0,
hp 5, 2, #AT 1, D 1-6, ML 7), but in time of need they will
don leather armor, carry shields (AC 6), and bear arms
against attackers. The place is also served by his wife,
daughter, a serving wench, and a scullion*. (The owner
and his son each have 2d6 gold pieces in their purses,
the wife 
d6, all others have 2d6 coppers.) The cellar is
where drink and food are stored and prepared, and
where the servants sleep. The family sleeps in the small
loft. (Hidden in an old crock under empty flour bags in
the back room are 82 copper pieces, 29 silver pieces,
40 
electrum  pieces, and 17 gold pieces.)
10

===== PAGE 13 =====
18.
and 1-100 s.p.  at any time of the day. It is emptied each
evening by the Curate (5th level cleric), who deposits
the coins with the Banker (11., above). A small stairway
in the northwest corner, behind the bare wooden pews,
leads to the cellar, where the Curate and his three as-
sistants have their quarters.
The Curate is the most influential person in the Keep ex-
cept for the Castellan (26., below). He has a + 1 ‘to hit’,
due to his high level; (AC  0 due to  plate mail $1,
normal shield, and a ring of protection +1, C 5, hp 24,
#AT I, D see below, ML 10). He will wield either a mace
+ 1 (D2-7)  or a snake staff. The snake staff adds + 1 to
“to hit” rolls and does 2-7 (1d6+1)  points of damage.
On command the staff turns into a snake and coils
around the person hit. The victim is held helpless until
The Curate recalls the staff (or for 
1d4 turns maximum).
The snake staff crawls back to the cleric on command.
He rarely wears his armor (unless the Keep is threaten-
ed), but is never without his ring and Staff. His three
Acolytes (AC 9 or 2, C I, hp 6, 5, 5, #AT  I, D 1-6, ML 7)
have plate mail and shield (AC 2) and mace. They are
normally clothed in robes (AC 9) but will arm for battle
on command of the Curate.
The Curate normally carries the following spells: cure
light wounds, detect magic, bless, hold person.  He
will only use the cure on a member of his congrega-
tion, such as an officer of the Guard or a shopkeeper.
All of the clerics’ armor and weapons are stored in the
Curate’s locked room in the Chapel cellar, which has
normal but sparse furnishings. The Chapel also owns
many magic potions 
(3 of healing, 1 or ESP, 1 of gase-
ous form) and a magic scroll with one cure disease (a
higher level spell which will cure any one normal
disease), one  hold person,  and three  cure light
wounds spells on it. All of these magic items are hidden
in a secret compartment underneath the offering box
pedestal. The door of the compartment cannot be
found unless the pedestal is moved. The door has two
locks in it; the Curate and the Castellan have the only
sets of keys.
If questioned closely by a friend, the Curate might (50%
of the time) reveal his distrust of the Priest (7b.,  above)
who visits the Keep regularly. The Acolytes, however,
think very highly of the Priest, and will say so to any who
ask about him.
INNER GATEHOUSE: This stone structure is itself like a
small fort. The southern portion is only about 15’ high,
plus battlement; the rear part is some 30’ tall, plus bat-
tlement. There are arrow slits in the southern section of
course, and along the walls of the 20’ wide, 10’ high
passage through to the north. This passage slopes up-
wards towards the inner courtyard. The heavy gates
are doublebound with iron and spiked. There are six
guards on duty at all times (two inside the gateway, two
on the lower battlement, two on the upper), plus one of-
ficer on call (see below). No visitor is allowed beyond
this point except by invitation or unless he or she has
special permits.
The first floor of the place is the main armory. There are
dozens of shields and of each sort of weapon.  
Two
small  rooms are quarters for the Sergeant and Captain
of the Guard (furnishings are sparse). The second story
on the north houses the Guardsmen stationed here.
Captain of the Guard: (AC 0, due to plate mail + I and
shield +1, F 3, hp 24, #AT I, D 1-6 plus magical bonus,
ML II). He has a sword +2 and a spear +1. This man is
very kind, friendly and an excellent leader. (He will
sometimes move about in the Outer Bailey disguised as
a mercenary.) He has 15 gold pieces and a 150 g.p.
II
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
gem in the pommel* of his dagger.
Sergeant of the Guard: (AC 2, due to chain mail with a
shield +1, and a ring of protection +1, F 2, hp 16, #AT
1,  D 3-8 due to Strength plus magic weapon bonus, ML
11.) This very strong fellow (strength 17) is a hard fighter
and loves to drink and brawl He wields a sword +1
and a dagger +1. He carries d6 each of gold, elec-
trum, and silver pieces. (There is a potion of healing in
a chest in his room under a spare cape.)
Guardsmen: There are 24 quartered here. Each has
chain mail and shield, sword, dagger, and hand axe.
Eight are crossbowmen, eight are long bowmen, and
eight have pole arms. (AC 4 or 5 when not using shield,
F I, hp 5 each, 
#AT  1 or 1/2 for crossbows, D 1-6,  ML 10.)
Two from each group are on duty at any given time; the
rest take a full turn to armor and arm and turn out. (Each
has 2d6 silver pieces.)
SMALL TOWER: This typical tower houses eight guards-
men who are all armored in chain mail (AC 5) and car-
ry crossbows and swords. Shields are stored below, so
in hand-to-hand combat they are AC 4. (AC 5 or 4, F I,
hp 5 each, #AT 1 or 
1/2 for crossbows, D I-6, ML IO.) Two
are on duty atop the tower at all times. The other six are
in the chamber below. The base of the tower is solid ex-
cept for the small stair up.
GUARD TOWER: This 50’ high structure houses 24
guardsmen (as in 18.,  above). Their commander is the
corporal of the guard (AC 0, F I, hp 9, #AT  I, D 1-6 plus
magic bonus, ML II.) He is armed with a sword and a
dagger +1. There are supplies of food, weapons, and
oil on the upper floor. The rest of the building is bar-
racks and a room for the leader.
INNER BAILEY: This entire area is grass-covered. The
troops drill here, and there are practice and jousting
areas. During the daylight hours they will always be a
dozen or more soldiers engaged in weapons practice.
CAVALRY STABLES: There are 30 war horses (AC 7, HD 3,
hp II each, #AT  2, D I-611-6, ML 8) and 1-4 riding horses
(AC 7, HD 2, hp 8 each, #AT 2, D I-411-4, ML 7)  kept within.
They are tended by two lackeys’ (AC 9, LVL 0, hp 2
each, 
#AT  1, D I-6, ML 7) and guarded by two men-at-
arms (AC 4, F 1,  hp 4, #AT I, D 1-6, ML 8).
GREAT TOWER: This 60’ high structure houses 24 guards-
men, one-third with crossbows, one-third with bows,
one-third with pole arms, and another 
corporal as per
20., above. (See 18. for tower details and so on.)
24. THE KEEP FORTRESS: This place has many tiers and is
solidly built to withstand attack. The lowest level con-
sists of a 15’ high front section. The round flanking
towers are 60’ high, while the main building is 30’ high.
All sections have battlements. The door is solid iron, In-
side are a great hall, an armory for the cavalry, and
several side chambers for small dinners or meetings.
The cellars below have vast stores of provisions,
quarters for a score of servants, a cistern*, and a dun-
geon area with four stout cells.
The Castellan’ lives in area 27. (see below), but he and
his assistants will be in the lower part of the building
during the day, tending to business and holding audi-
ence. There will always be eight guardsmen in plate
(AC 3) with crossbows and swords on duty on the wall,
and the same number with plate 
& shield (AC 2) and
swords stationed inside. (AC 2, F 1,  hp 5 each, #AT 1 or 1/2
with crossbows, D I-6, ML 8.) The whole place is well
decorated, and the furniture is heavy and upholstered.
Second Floor: There are rooms here for up to 36
cavalrymen, plus two chambers for special guests.
There are 12 heavy cavalrymen with plate &shield and

===== PAGE 14 =====
sword and dagger (AC 2, F I, hp 8 each, #AT 1, D I-6,
ML 10). There are also 18 medium cavalrymen in
chain, each with crossbow and axe, quartered here.
(AC 5, F I, hp 6 each, #AT I or 
1/2 for crossbows, D 1-6,
ML 10.) Their rooms are sparsely furnished with only
a cot, chair, and armoire* for each. Two couriers,
men-at-arms with leather armor and swords, are
currently quartered in one side chamber. (AC 7, F I,
hp 3, #AT  1,  D 1-6, ML 8.)
25. TOWER: Each is 40’ high, with battlements, and pierced
with arrow slits to protect the east and west corners of
the building. The fortress men-at-arms are housed in
these structures and in the towers indicated by 26.
26. CENTRAL TOWERS: These structures rise 20’ above the
roof of the fortress, with a 5’ battlement on their roof.
Their two upper stories house 12 men-at-arms each; 6 in
plate (AC 3) with crossbow and sword, 6 in plate and
shield (AC 2) with sword (AC 3 or 2, F I, hp 5, #AT  1 or 1/2
for crossbows, D 1-6, ML IO) who are off-duty. It will take
one turn for them to get ready for battle. In the two
lower floors are the  Castellan’s  assistants.
Scribe: This individual is a 2nd level cleric, armored in
plate & shield, with a mace. (AC 2, C 2, hp II,
#AT I, D I-6. ML 8.) He has a hold person spell
on a scroll he carries; his own spell is light
which he may cast on an opponent’s eyes to
blind him. The scribe’s chamber is austere,
and there is nothing of value within except a
gold holy symbol worth 150 gold pieces. He
has 48 gold pieces in his purse.
Advisor: This individual is a third level elf (AC 0 due to
Dexterity 16 and plate mail +1, E 3, hp 18, #AT
1, D 1-6, ML 12). He wears a ring of fire resist-
ance and carries a short bow (which he uses
at + 2 “to hit” due to high Dexterity) and 10 ar-
rows +1. His spells are charm person, read
magic, and web. Tapestries and carpets are
all about the room (one tapestry is worth 500
g.p.); he has very nice furniture. He wears a
jeweled pendant worth 1,000 g.p. and carries
6 platinum and 10 gold pieces in his purse.
27. CASTELLAN’S  CHAMBER: This portion of the fortress is
10’ above the main roof and has battlements. Inside is
the private room of the commander of the whole Keep,
It is lavishly furnished, with a silver mirror (worth 300 g.p.)
on the wall, a malachite bowl (worth 750 g.p.) on a
table, and a fox robe (worth 1,200 g.p.) in his armoire*.
He has a small silver case (worth 450 g.p.) which con-
tains 40 platinum pieces and 12 gems worth 100 g.p.
each. There is a spear +1 on the wall by the door.
Castellan: 6th level fighter (+ 1 to hit due to his high
level), (AC -3 due to Dexterity 16, plate mail
+ 1, shield + 1, and ring of protection + 1,
hp 48, #AT I, D I-6 plus magical bonus, ML
12) with  sword +2, dagger +1, and an
elven cloak and boots. (He also carries a
potion of levitation and a potion of heal-
ing with him at all times.) His chain of office
is silver with gems (worth 1,800 g.p.), and he
carries 10 each of platinum, gold, and
electrum  pieces, plus a gem worth 500 g.p.
He is a very clever fellow, but at times he
can be too hasty in his decisions. His
bravery and honesty are absolute. If a
guest asks him any question, he will do his
best to answer, providing that it does not
compromise the security of the KEEP.
ADVENTURES OUTSIDE THE KEEP
After the group establishes itself and obtains equipment,
they will either follow clues gained in conversation with res-
idents of the KEEP or set out exploring on their own (or both).
Naturally, they will be trying to find the Caves of Chaos, but
this will take some travelling, and in the meantime they
might well run into more than they can handle. Thus there
are two maps 
- an AREA MAP for use when the party
searches for the caves, and the CAVES OF CHAOS MAP
which is a dungeon level map. First, take a look at the AREA
MAP.
The “Realm” is to the west, off the map. The road branches,
one path to the KEEP ON THE BORDERLANDS, the other lead-
ing off into the forsaken wilderness beyond the ken of Law.
Note that most features are unnamed, so you can name
them as suits your campaign. Inspection of the map will
also show that there are five special areas. Numbers 1-4
indicate outside encounters and are detailed below. The
Caves of the Unknown area is left for you to use as a place
to devise your own cavern complex or dungeon maze. You
may also wish to expand on the other encounter areas, de-
signing camps, lairs or lost ruins to permit more adventur-
ing. If you do not wish to undertake this at first, simply DO
NOT ALLOW YOUR PLAYERS TO LOCATE IT EVEN IF THEY THOR-
OUGHLY SEARCH THE VERY SPACE IT IS IN. (It was hidden by a
magical illusion so as to be undetectable . . . 
)
The normal movement rate is 1 square per hour searching,
3 walking. Walking in the fens is at the rate of 1 square per
hour. Walking is done in the forest at 2 squares per hour.
(Wilderness adventures are more completely explained in
the 
D&D EXPERT SET rulebook.)
Camping Outdoors Overnight: Nothing will bother the
party when camped outdoors, unless they are within six
squares of a numbered encounter area. For each square
they are within the six square range there is a 1 in 6 chance
that the monsters there will seek them; so at 6 squares there
is a 1 in 6 chance, at 5 there is a 2 in 6, at 4 there is a 3 in 6, at
3 there is a 4 in 6, at 2 there is a 5 in 6 and at I square a 6 in 6
- automatic encounter. Treat otherwise as a normal en-
counter.
Organized parties should post at least one guard in shifts
throughout the night. However, if the party posts no guards,
the monsters will surprise automatically as the party was
sleeping and unaware. If the party has a fire lit, the mon-
sters will never be surprised, even though the party may be.
Also take note of what provisions are brought with the party.
They are adventuring, not hunting, and so they should not
expect to find food. They should bring enough food and
water with them. If not, when the party eats all the food, they
will either have to try their luck at hunting (1 chance in 6 to
catch food for 
one day for d6 men), or return to the Keep to
restock their supplies. Stress to them in some manner that
they will probably prefer to return to the Keep, knowing that
they will fare better there, and not risk encountering mon-
sters while hunting.
If the party attempts to move off the map, have a sign, a
wandering stranger, a friendly talking magpie, or some
other “helper” tell them that they are moving in the wrong
direction.
Area Map Encounter Areas:
1. MOUND OF THE LIZARD MEN: The streams and pools of
the fens* are the home of a tribe of exceptionally evil
lizard men. Being nocturnal, this group is unknown to
the residents of the KEEP, and they will not bother
individuals moving about in daylight unless they set
foot on the mound, under which the muddy burrows
and dens of the tribe are found. One by one, males will
12

===== PAGE 15 =====
come out of the marked opening and attack the party.
There are 6 males total (AC 5, HD 2 + 
1,  hp 12, 10, 9, 8, 7,
5, #AT  1, D 2-7, MV (20’) Save F 2, ML 12) who will attack. If
all these males are killed, the remainder of the tribe will
hide in the lair. Each has only crude weapons: the larg
est has a necklace worth 1,100 gold pieces.
In the lair is another male (AC 5, HD 2 + 1,  hp 11, #AT  1,  D
2-7, Save F 2, ML 12)  3 females (who are equal to males,
but attack as I + 1 hit dice monsters, and have 8, 6 and
6 hit points respectively), 8 young (with 1 hit point each
and do not attack), and 6 eggs. Hidden under the nest
with the eggs are 112 copper pieces, 186 silver pieces,
a gold ingot worth 
90 gold pieces, a healing potion
and a poison potion. The first person crawling into the
lair will always lose the initiative to the remaining lizard
man and the largest female, unless the person thrusts a
torch well ahead of his or her body.
2. SPIDERS’ LAIR: Two black widow spiders (AC 6, HD 3*,
hp 11, 10, #AT  I, D 2-12 plus poison, MV (20’) (40’) in web,
Save F 2, ML 8) have spun their webs amongst the trees
here. Under a pile of leaves nearby is the skeleton of a
victim, a hapless elf. Everything he bore has turned to
rot and ruin, save a filthy shield which appears quite
worthless (but cleaning and oiling will return it to 
+1
magic status).
3. RAIDER CAMP: A party of a dozen chaotic fighters has
camped here - close enough to be able to spy on the
KEEP, far enough away so as to be unlikely to be dis-
covered by patrols. The members of this group are:
Leader: AC 5 (chain mail), F 2, hp 12, #AT I, D 1-6,
ML 10, bow and spear
Lieutenant: AC 6 (leather and shield), F 1,  hp 7, #AT 1,
D 1-6, ML 9, spear and sword
2 Bowmen: AC 7 (leather armor), F I, hp 4 each, #AT
1,  D 1-6, ML 8, bows and daggers
8 Spearmen: AC 6 (leather and shield), F 1,  hp 5 each,
#AT  1,  D 1-6, ML 8, spears and daggers
Each has 3d6 silver pieces, the lieutenant has an addi-
tional d6 gold pieces, and the leader has an addition-
al 2d6 gold pieces. They each have a bed roll and the
bowmen have an extra quiver of 20 arrows. There is a
cask of good wine on a tree stump in the camp. Several
game animals are hung from branches and can be
eaten or taken along as they are cleaned.
4. THE MAD HERMIT: For many years a solitary hermit has
haunted this area of the forest, becoming progressively
wilder and crazier and more dangerous. His home is in
a huge hollow oak, the entrance to the hollow con-
cealed by a thick bush. Inside is a mound of leaves and
a couple of pieces of crude furniture. Even his cup and
plate are handmade of wood and are of no value.
(There is a small chest buried under a few inches of dirt
under the leaves of the Mad Hermit’s “bed”. In this con-
tainer are 31 gold pieces, 164 silver pieces, a potion of
Invisibility, and a dagger +1.) The hermit also has a
“pet”, a mountain lion, which lurks on a limb of the oak,
ready to spring upon any unwary intruder. (This crea-
ture will always get first attack.)
Mad Hermit: (3rd level thief, AC 4 due to leather armor,
ring of protection +1 and Dexterity 17, hp 15, #AT  1 at
+ 2, D 3-8, ML 10.) The hermit has a 30% chance to move
silently and a 20% chance to  hide in shadows. His
madness gives him a +2  bonus to hit and a +2  bonus
on damage (thus the bonus for striking from behind is
+ 6 to hit, and double normal damage + 2 points). He
carries no treasure (other than the ring he wears!).
Mountain Lion: AC 6, HD 3 + 2, hp 15, #AT  3, D I-311-311-6,
MV (50’) Save F 2, ML 8. (This creature will always attack
first in each round. If it leaps down upon an opponent,
it gains +2  to hit on each of its attacks that combat
round. Usually it will first attack by jumping, and then it
will stay on the ground and fight normally. If it is not en-
gaged in combat during any round, however, it will
take the opportunity to leap into a tree and then spring
down on the next round.)
(The DM may choose to have the Mad Hermit approach
the group on friendly terms, claiming to be a holy man
seeking goodness in nature 
- perhaps he actually be-
lieves that at times. He will suddenly turn on the group
when the opportunity presents itself, striking from be-
hind, and calling his ferocious “pet” to his aid.)
13

===== PAGE 16 =====
THE CAVES OF CHAOS
(DM Note: When the players discover the ravine area, read
the following paragraph to them. Add whatever you feel is
appropriate to the description of what they see, but be
careful not to give anything away or mislead them. In-
formation on how you should handle the whole area is
given before the encounter area descriptions.]
START: The forest you have been passing through has been
getting more dense, tangled, and gloomier than before.
The thick, twisted tree trunks, unnaturally misshapen limbs,
writhing roots, clutching and grasping thorns and briars all
seem to warn and ward you off, but you have forced and
hacked your way through regardless. Now the strange
growth has suddenly ended 
- you have stepped out of the
thicket into a ravine-like area. The walls rise rather steeply
to either side to a height of about 100’ or so  - dark,
streaked rock mingled with earth. Clumps of trees grow
here and there, both on the floor of the ravine and up the
sloping walls of the canyon. The opening you stand in is
about 200’ wide. The ravine runs at least 400’ west (actually
440’) to where the western end rises in a steep slope. Here
and there, at varying heights on all sides of the ravine, you
can see the black mouths of cave-like openings in the rock
walls. The sunlight is dim, the air dank, there is an oppres-
sive feeling here 
- as if something evil is watching and
waiting to pounce upon you. There are bare, dead trees
here and there, and upon one a vulture perches and gazes
hungrily at you. A flock of ravens rise croaking from the
ground, the beat of their wings and their cries magnified by
the terrain to sound loud and horrible. Amongst the litter of
rubble, boulders, and dead wood scattered about on the
ravine floor, you can see bits of gleaming ivory and white 
-
closer inspection reveals that these are bones and skulls of
men, animals, and other things,. . .
You know that you have certainly discovered the Caves  Of
Chaos.
NOTES FOR THE DM ON THE CAVES OF CHAOS
CAVE AREA MAP:  There are woods overlays and rough
contour lines* shown on the map. These are only for surface
movement references, and once your players are under-
ground you should ignore these markings.
WOODS: The small groves and copses are thick growths,
tangled and forbidding. You may, at your option, have
characters encounter occasional monsters herein  
-
stirges, humanoids (kobolds,  orcs,  etc.) from the caves
nearby, or the like. Movement through these wooded areas
is slow and difficult. Characters must move in single file.
Even though not shown, there are single trees, shrubs, and
bushes elsewhere.
UNDERGROUND: The caves, passages, and rooms of the
complex are on different levels. Passages slope upwards
and downwards between the contours, even where stair-
ways are not shown. Areas are roofed by at least 5’ of solid
rock.
INTERIORS: Except where noted otherwise, all underground
areas are natural or cut from living rock. All surfaces are
rough (and easy for a thief to climb) with small ledges,
minor cracks, small holes, etc.
RANSOMING PRISONERS:  Organized tribes can optionally
be allowed to take player characters prisoner, freeing one
to return to the KEEP in order to bring a ransom back to free
the captives. Set the sums low - 10 to 100 gold pieces (or a
magic item which the ransoming monsters would find use-
ful) per prisoner. If the ransom is paid, allow the characters
to go free. Then, without telling the players, assume that this
success brought fame to the capturing monsters, so their
numbers will be increased by 2-12 additional members,
and the tribe will also be very careful to watch 
for  a return
of the adventurers seeking revenge for their humiliating
captivity. The period of extra alertness will last for 1-4 weeks;
the increase in numbers is permanent.
TRIBAL ALLIANCES AND WARFARE: You might allow player
characters to somehow become aware that there is a
constant fighting going on between the goblins and hob-
goblins on one side and the orcs,  sometimes with gnoll al-
lies, on the other - with the kobolds hoping to be forgotten
by all, and the bugbears  picking off any stragglers who
happen by. With this knowledge, they might be able to set
tribes to fighting one another, and then the adventurers
can take advantage of the weakened state of the feuding
humanoids. Be careful to handle this whole thing properly;
it is a device you may use to aid players who are few in
number but with a high level of playing skill. It will make it
too easy if there are many players, or if players do not ac-
tually use wits instead of force when the opportunity pre-
sents itself.
MONSTERS LEARNING FROM EXPERIENCE: Allow intelligent
monsters (even those with only low intelligence) to learn
from experience. If player characters use flaming oil
against them, allow the monsters to use oil as soon as they
can find some. If adventurers are always sneaking up on
them, have the monsters set warning devices to alert them
of intruders. If characters run from overwhelming numbers,
have the monsters set up a ruse by causing a few to shout
and make noise as if there were many coming, thus hope-
fully frightening off the intruders. This method of handling
monsters is basic to becoming a good DM. Apply the
principle wherever and whenever you have reason.
EMPTIED AREAS:  When monsters are cleared out of an
area, the place will be deserted for 1-4 weeks. If no further
intrusion is made into the area, however, the surviving
former inhabitants will return or else some other monster
will move in. For instance, a 
thou1 might move into the
minotaur’s cave complex (I.), bringing with him whatever
treasure he has.
Encounter Areas:
A. KOBOLD LAIR: There is a 2 in 6 chance that as the group
enters the cave-like tunnel, 8 kobolds will come out
from hiding in the trees above and attack. Kobolds:
AC 7, HD 
1/2, hp 3 each, #AT I, D 1-4, MV (40’), Save NM,
ML 6). Each carries d8 silver pieces.
Note: 30’ inside the entrance is a pit 
(B). There is a 3 in
6 chance that each person in the front rank will
fall in unless they are probing ahead. There is a
1 in 6 chance that individuals in the second rank
will also fall in, but only if they are close to the
first rank and the character ahead has fallen in.
The pit is 10’ deep, and those falling in will take
1-6 points of damage. The pit lid will close, and
persons within cannot escape without aid from
the outside. The noise will attract creatures from
areas 1. and 2. Planks for crossing the pit are
stored at #1 
., beyond.
1. GUARD ROOM:  6 kobold auards (AC 7. HD 1/2. hp 3
2.
each, #AT I, D 1-4, Save NM,  ML 6). They will throw their
spears the first round if they have initiative. Each carries
d6 silver pieces. One will run to warn areas 4. and 6..
The guards will be alerted by loud noises or lights.
GIANT RATS (amidst garbage and waste): There are 18
giant rats (AC 7, HD 
1/2, hp 2 each, #AT  I, D 1-3 plus
disease, MV (40’), Save F 1,  ML 8). Each time a character
14

===== PAGE 17 =====


===== PAGE 18 =====


===== PAGE 19 =====
CHARACTER ATTACKS
Attacker’s Defender’s Armor Class
level 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 -2-3
(Normalman) II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 20 20
1st to 3rd 10 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 20
4th + hiaher’ 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20
l for NPCs or higher level characters
Monster’s
Hit Dice
up to 1
1+ to 2
2+  to3
3+  to4
4+  to5
5+  to6
6+  to7
7+  to9
9+  to II
II + to 13
13+ to15
15+ to 17
17+ or more
MONSTER ATTACKS
Defender’s Armor Class
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 O -1 -2 -3
10  II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 20
9 10  II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20
8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19
6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16  
10 18
5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16 17
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15 16
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14 15
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13 14
2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12 13
2 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II 12
2 2 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 II
22222345678910
Type of Attack
Death Paralysis Rods,
Character Ray or Magic or Turn Dragon Stave,
Class Poison Wands To Stone Breath or Spells
Clerics II 12 14 16 15
Dwarves and
Halflings 10 II
Elves 12 13
Fighters 12 13
Magic-users 13 14
12 13 14
13 15 15
14
::
::
16
15
Thieves
13 14 16 15
Saving Throws for Higher Level Characters
In the D&D BASIC rules, NPCs  higher than 3rd level should
use the saving throws given above. In the D&D EXPERT SET,
saving throws are given for higher level characters, In the
more advanced game, a character’s saving throws get
easier to make as the character advances in experience
level.
The DM may want to give higher level NPCs  a bonus of +2
on all saving throw rolls to imitate their improved ability to
save vs. special attacks. This should not be done, however,
if the D&D EXPERT rules are used.COST OF EQUIPMENT AND WEAPONS
Weapons
Item
Axes:
Battle Axe (two-handed)
Hand Axe
Bows:
Crossbow (fires quarrels)
Case with 30 quarrels
Long Bow
Short Bow
Quiver with 20 arrows
1 silver-tipped arrow
Daggers:
Normal dagger
Silver dagger
Swords:
Short Sword
Sword (normal)
Two-handed Sword
Other weapons:
Mace*
Club*
Pole Arm (two-handed)
Sling with 30 Sling Stones’
Spear
War Hammer*
* these weapons may be used by a cleric.
Armor
Cost in gp
7
4
30
10
40
25
:
3;
7
10
15
Item AC Cost in gp
Chain Mail Armor 5 40
Leather Armor 7 20
Plate Mail Armor 60
Shield
 (-I”,* 10
l deduct 1 from Armor Class number if shield is used.
FANTASY ADVENTURE GAME
REFERENCE TABLES
(This page is perforated for easy removal.)
Miscellaneous
Item
Backpack
Flask of Oil
Hammer (small)
Holy Symbol
Holy Water (1 vial)
Iron Spikes (12)
Lantern
Mirror (hand-sized, steel)
Rations:
Iron Rations (preserved food for
I person/l week)
Standard Rations (unpreserved food
for 1 person/l week)
Rope (50’ length)
Sacks:
Small
Large
Thieves’ Tools
Tinder Box (flint&steel)
Torches (6)
Water/Wine Skin
Wolfsbane (1 bunch)
Wooden Pole (10’ long)
Cost in gp
5
;
25
25
1
10
5
15
5
1
:
25
3
1
1
10
1
Sometimes the characters may wish to buy an item not on
this list. In this case, the DM must carefully consider whether
such an item could be found for sale and, if so, how much it
would cost. The item should then be added to this list.

===== PAGE 20 =====
CLERICAL ABILITIES MAGIC-USER AND ELF SPELLS
First level Clerical Spells
1. Cure Light Wounds 5. Protection from Evil
2. Detect Evil 6. Purify Food and Water
3. Detect Magic 7. Remove Fear
4. Light 8. Resist Cold
Second level Cleric Spells
I. Bless
2. Hold Person
3. Silence 15’ radius
Clerics vs. Undead
Cleric’s
level Skeletons Zombies Ghouls Wights Wraiths
:
7 9 II No effect No effect
T 7 9 II No effect
3 T T 7 9 II
T  means that the cleric automatically Turns the undead; a
number is the roll needed (on 2d6)  to Turn. A complete
explanation of Turning  undead is given in the class
description of clerics.
First level Spells
1. Charm Person 7. Protection from Evil
2. Detect Magic
3. Floating Disc
8. Read Languages
9. Read Magic
4. Hold Portal 10. Shield
5. Light II. Sleep
6. Magic Missile 12. Ventriloquism
Second level Spells
I. Continual Light 7. Levitate
2. Detect Evi I 8. Locate Object
3. Detect Invisible
4. ESP
9. Mirror Image
10. Phantasmal Force
2:  
 ln;z;$ility 11. Web
12. Wizard Lock
Third level Spells
1.  Dispel Magic
2. Fire Ball
3. Fly
ARMOR CLASSES
VARIABLE WEAPON DAMAGE
Damage
1-4 (ld4)
1-4 (ld4)
1-4 
(1d4)
1-4 (1d4)
1-6 (1d6)
1-6 (1d6)
l-6 (1d6)
l-6 (1d6)
1-6 (ld6)
1-6 
(1d6)
1-6 (ld6)
1-8 (ld8)
l-8 
(1d8)
I-IO (1d10)
I-IO (1d10)
* Two-handed weapon
Weapon Type
Torch
Dagger
Sling stone
Club
Arrow
Hand Axe
Mace
Quarrel’ (Crossbow Bolt)
Short Sword
Spear
War Hammer
Battle Axe  
l
Sword
Pole Arm’
Two-handed Sword’
Type of Armor Armor Class
Clothing only 9
Shield only 8
Leather Armor 7
Leather Armor &Shield
Chain Mail Armor
ii
Chain Mail Armor&Shield 4
Plate Mail Armor 3
Plate Mail Armor&Shield 2
Armor Class is a measure of how well a character is pro-
I
tected from physical attacks. As the Armor Class number
gets lower, the character becomes harder to hit. Armor
Class is affected by such things as magic, magic items,
and Dexterity, as well as by the type of armor worn.
Armor Class may be lowered (improved) by Dexterity and
magical bonuses. A fighter with a Dexterity score of 16,
plate mail +1, and a shield +1 would have a total Armor
Class of -2. Magical protection pluses are always
subtracted from the number of the Armor Class.
WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 1 WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 2
Die
Roll
1
:
9
6
l
9
10
II
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
Wandering
Monster
Acolyte (A)
Bandit (N-C)
Beetle, Fire(N)
Dwarf(L)
Gnome (L)
Goblin(C)
*Green Slime(N)
Halfling (L)
Killer Bee(N)
Kobold (C)
Lizard. Gecko (N)
Orc (C)  .
Shrew, Giant(N)
Skeleton(C)
Snake, Cobra (N)
Spider, Crab(N)
Sprite(N)
Stirge (N)
Trader (A)
Wolf(N)
No.
1-8
1-8
1-8
1-6
l-8
2-8
3-118
I-IO
4-16
1-3
2-8
I-IO
3-12
1-6
:I:8
I-IO
l-8
2-12
Die
Roll
1
:
4
5
6
i
9
10
II
12
13
14
15
:;
:i
20
Wandering
Monster
Beetle, Oil (N)
Berserker (N)
Cat, Mt. Lion(N)
Elf (L/N)
Ghoul (C)
Gnoll (C)
*Gray Ooze (N)
Hobgoblin (C)
Lizard, Draco (N)
Lizard Man (N)
Neanderthal (N)
Noble (A)
Pixie (N)
Robber Fly(N)
Rock Baboon (N)
Snake, Pit Viper(N)
Spider, Black Widow(N)
Troglodyte (C)
Veteran (A)
Zombie(C)
No.
1-8
1-6
l-4
1-4
1-6
1-6
1
l-6
l-4
1-3
I-IO
2-12
2-8
1-6
2-12
1-8
1-3
1-8
2-8
2-8
WANDERING MONSTERS: LEVEL 3
Die Wandering
Roll Monster No.
;
Beetle, Tiger(N) l-6
Bugbear (C) 2-8
3 Carrion Crawler(N) 1-3
2 Doppleganger Driver (C)
Ant(N)
2-8 1-6
6 *Gargoyle(C) l-6
lt
Gelatinous Cube(N) 1
Harpy (C) l-6
9 Living Statue, Crystal (N) l-6
10 *Lycanthrope, Wererat (C) 1-8
II Medium (A) 1-4
12 Medusa (C) l-3
13 NPC Party (A) 5-8
14 l Ochre Jelly(N) 1
15 Ogre (C) l-6
16 Shadow(C) 1-8
17 Spider, Tarantella (N) 1-3
18 Thou1  (C) 1-6
:: White Ape(N) 1-6
* Wight (C) 1-6

===== PAGE 21 =====
is bitten there is a 1-in-20 chance of getting a disease,
unless a save vs. Poison is made. If the saving throw
failed, there is a 25% chance the character will die in 1- 
6 (ld6) days. Otherwise the character will be too sick to
adventure for one game month. These monsters are the
pets of the kobolds, living off the garbage and waste of
their hosts. They will rush to the sound of the trap door
closing or of battle. They have nothing of value in their
lair or on their bodies, but their leader (rat 
#18)  who will
be at the back of the pack, a huge fellow (AC 5 due to
speed and cunning, HD l-l, hp 4, #AT 2, D 2-4/2-4,  MV
(40’) Save F I, ML 8) wears a thin silver chain set with 5
small gems (jewelry value 400 gold pieces, chain value
50 gold pieces, each gem worth 50 gold pieces). The
weight of a few rats will not trigger the pit trap.
3. FOOD STORAGE ROOM: The door is locked. This place
contains various sorts of dried and salted meat, grain,
and vegetables in sacks, boxes, barrels, and piles.
There are also bits and pieces of past human victims.
There is nothing of value here; even the wine in a large
cask is thin and vinegary.
4. GUARD ROOM: Here are 3 very large kobold guards
with chain mail and bows to fire down the passage at
attackers (AC 5, HD 
1+ 1, hp 5 each, #AT  I, D 1-6, MV
(40'),  Save NM, ML 6). The guards will hide behind the
corner for cover, so all missiles fired at them will be at -2
“to hit”. Each carries a hand axe in his belt and a purse
with 2d6 gold pieces.
5. KOBOLD CHIEFTAIN’S ROOM: This huge kobold (AC 5,
HD 2, hp 8, 
#AT  1,  D 2-8 (2d4),  MV (40’), Save F 1,  ML 8) is so
powerful that he fights with a battle axe. He has the key
to the storage room (#3.) and a large gem on a great
golden chain about his neck (value 1,200 gold pieces).
Five female kobolds (AC 7, HD 1/2, hp 2 each, #AT I,
D 1-3, Save NM, ML 8 due to the chief) are also in the
room. There are heaps of cloth and bits of battered fur-
niture in the place. Hidden in an old blanket hanging
on the wall are 50 gold pieces (sewn into the hem).
Each female has d6 gold pieces. A locked chest holds
203 copper, 61 silver, and 22 
electrum  pieces.
6. COMMON CHAMBER: The rest of the kobold tribe lives
here. There are 17 males (AC 7, HD 1/2, hp 3 each, #AT  I,
D 1-4, MV (40’), Save NM, ML 6), 23 females (AC 7, HD 1/2,
hp 2 each, #AT 1, D 1-3, Save NM, ML 6), and 8 young
(which do not attack). If their caves are invaded, those
able will help in its defense. Males have d6 silver
pieces each, females d4 silver pieces each; the young
have nothing. Amidst the litter of cloth and bits and
scraps of odds-and-ends there is a piece of silk worth
150 gold pieces. (If the party does not search it will not
be located.)
(DM Note: Kobold losses will not be replaced, though in-
jured kobolds will heal. If the attackers hurl oil at the
kobolds, they will retreat if possible, rather than suffer
damage. Should they have the opportunity to find any
flasks of oil, the kobolds will use them against attacking
characters!)
B. ORC LAIR: Upon entering, the party will see that the
wall 30’ to the north is decorated with heads and skulls
(human, elven, dwarven) in various stages of decay.
These cheerful greetings are placed in niches which
checker about 100 square feet of the surface of the
wall. Close inspection will show that one is orcish (see
g. below). Sounds of activity can be heard from the
west, but all is quiet to the east.
Areag: This narrowing area is a guard post, the
watcher 
(Orc:  AC 7, HD 1,  hp 5, #AT 1,  D 1-6, MV
(40’), Save F I, ML 8) having a small, window-
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
like opening from which he can observe the
entrance 
to the  lair. A piece of gray canvas
behind gives the impression that the guard’s
head is another of the ghastly trophies which
decorate the wall. If adventurers enter, he will
quickly duck down, slipping a goblin head
into the place his own was, and alert the 
orcs
at 7.
GUARD ROOM: 4 orcs: (AC 7, HD 1, hp 5 each, #AT  I,
D 1-6, MV (40’), Save F 1,  ML 8). These guards are armed
with spears. Each carries one for hurling and one to
melee with. They have d8 electrum  pieces each. When
alerted, they will rush to engage intruders, raising the
alarm when they see them. There is nothing of value in
their chamber, there being only pallets and shabby
clothing hanging on pegs.
The watcher (g.) will alert the 4 guards here (exactly as
in 7., above) who will rush west and then south to flank
or surround intruders threatening area 7. or 9. or ap-
proaching their own quarters.
BANQUET AREA: There is a great fireplace on the south
wall and many tables and benches in this 30’ x 50’
chamber 
- the table at the north end having a large
chair at its head where the orc  leader usually holds
court. The place is empty of orcs  although there is a
small fire of charcoal burning in the fireplace.
COMMON ROOM:  Here are quartered 12 male 
orcs
(AC 7, HD I, hp 4 each, #AT I, D 1-6, Save F I, ML 8) and
18 females and 9 young (who do not fight). The males
have 2d6 silver pieces each, the others have nothing of
worth. The few furnishings in the room are likewise of no
value.
STORAGE CHAMBER:  The door is locked. Amidst the
stacks and heaps of supplies here (see 3., above), there
are 3 shields, 17 spears, and 2 battle axes in excellent
condition. A small crate in the far northeast corner con-
tains a long-forgotten crossbow and 60 bolts. There is
nothing else of value in the place.
12. ORC LEADER’S ROOM:  This large creature is clad in
chain mail, has a shield +1, and carries a mace. He
fights as a 4 hit dice monster, has 15 hit points, and
adds +2  to damage he causes when successfully strik-
ing an opponent (thus, 3-8 points of damage). This is
due to his strength and skill. He carries 31 gold pieces,
and wears a ring set with a gem (total value 700 g.p.).
The room is carpeted, has tapestries upon the walls
(note one of these covers the entrance to the small
cave to the west), and battered but still serviceable
furniture and a cot. His two mates sleep on cushions at
the foot of his resting place. The two females in the
place fight as males (AC 7, HD I, hp 3 each, #AT I, D 1-6,
Save F I, ML 8) and each has 2d6 gold pieces on her
person. The chests and other furniture have nothing of
value.
If hard pressed, the leader will wiggle behind the
tapestries on the south wall and attempt to work the
catch on the secret door to the south and go to the rival
tribe for help, but his very life must be in great peril be-
fore he will do so. (Adventurers can only spring this
catch by rolling a 1 (on a d6) twice in a row, or having
two characters do so simultaneously.)
Area 
1: This alcove is used by the orc  leader to store
arms and treasure. There are two complete
suits of chain mail here (man-sized and 
dwarf-
sized), 4 swords, and a locked iron chest which
holds 205 copper, 286 silver, 81 gold, and 13
platinum pieces. A small niche in the back
15

===== PAGE 22 =====
wall, with a boulder in front covering it, hides a
potion of healing  and a scroll with a  6-die  fire
ball spell on it.
(DM  Note: Orc  losses cannot be replaced, but after an
initial attack by adventurers, the males at location  10. will
move four of their number into area 9., arm these orcs  with
crossbows, and lay an ambush for intruders. If the leader is
slain, all surviving 
orcs  from this locale will seek refuge with
the tribe at C. (see below), taking everything of value (and
even of no value) with them, and B.  will thereafter be de-
serted.)
C.
13.
14.
15.
16.
ORC LAIR:  Similar to the  orcs  at area  B., these monsters
inhabit cave areas 14.-16.  These orcs,  however, do not
rely upon a continual watch being kept; instead, they
have a series of nearly invisible strings running across
the entry passage, about II’ from the entrance. When
any of these strings is tripped, a heavy, weighted net
suspended from the ceiling  will drop upon intruders,
and metal pieces tied to it will create an alarm sound.
(The trip strings will be spotted only if careful observa-
tion is asked for, each observer having a 1 in 6 chance
of seeing the devices. The camouflaged net is 10’ wide
and 18’ long, made of thick, tarred ropes, and will en-
trap the victim for 1-4 rounds. Meanwhile, 
orcs  from
area 14. will be there in 1 round . . . .)
FORGOTTEN ROOM: Only the two orc  leaders (from this
area and from B.) know of this place, They secretly meet
here on occasion to plan co-operative ventures or dis-
cuss tribal problems, for although separate tribes are
not exactly friendly, both leaders are aware of the fact
that there is strength in numbers. A small table and two
chairs are in the middle of the room. There is a wooden
chest to one side which holds a bow, a quiver of 20
arrows, 2 swords, and 2 daggers. Two shields are hung
on the south wall. There are only odds and ends other-
wise, except that in the southeast corner, hidden be-
neath an old bucket (which is filled with black, stag-
nant water) are two small pouches, each holding 1
gem of 50 gold piece value, 10 gold pieces, and 20 sil-
ver pieces. Nesting under these small pouches are 2
giant centipedes: (AC 9, HD 1/2,, hp 2 each, #AT I, D ill-
ness, MV (20’), Save NM, ML 7).
COMMON CHAMBER: Here there are quartered 9 male
orcs  with shields and swords (AC 6, HD 1,  hp 3 each, #AT
1,  D 1-6, MV (40’), Save F 1,  ML 8) and 8 females and 3
young who do not fight. The males have d20 silver
pieces each, the females d4 copper pieces, the young
have nothing. The place is a mess, and there is nothing
of value in it. The males will go the entrance if they hear
the net falling, arriving in 1 round.
COMMON HALL: General meetings are held here, and
food is likewise cooked and eaten here. There are 6
males here, 2 with crossbows, (AC 7, HD I, hp 3 each,
#AT 1 or 
1/2 for crossbows, Save F I, ML 8) and 4 females
(non-combatant), dwelling in the western forepart.
Each has treasure on their person equal to 
14.,  above.
The males here will also go to the entrance if they hear
the noise of the netfalling, arriving in 3 rounds.
LEADER’S ROOM: A guard (g.) is always posted just in-
side the door, and he cannot be surprised. 
(Orc:  AC 5
for chain mail, HD 1 + I, hp 6, #AT I, D 1-6. Save F I, ML 8,
carries 2d6 silver and d4 gold pieces.) He immediately
shouts an alarm if any intruders attempt to enter. Be-
hind him are stacks of barrels and boxes and sacks 
-
extra supplies for the tribe. (One small wine barrel, 400
coins in weight, contains a good quality wine worth 55
gold pieces.) None of the other items here have value,
and the foodstuffs is not up to human standards.
The area to the east houses the leader (AC 2, HD 3, hp
16, #AT I, D 1-6, Save F 3, ML 10). He is a very large orc
who wears plate mail and carries a shield. He uses a
sword and attacks as a 3 hit die monster. At his belt is a
magic hand axe 
+1 which he will hurl at an opponent,
and he can do so and still attack normally in the same
round of combat. His belt is made of silver, with a gold
buckle (total value 160 gold pieces), and his sword has
a 100 gold piece gem set in its pommel*. In his purse
are 8 gold pieces, 17 
electrum  pieces, and 5 silver
pieces. His mate is equal to a male orc  in combat
(AC 7, HD I, hp 5, #AT I, D 1-6, Save F 1, ML IO), and she
has a bracelet of ivory which is worth 100 gold pieces.
The area is well furnished, and a small chest of drawers
contains a sack with 50 platinum pieces tied shut with a
rope of climbing. There is also a copper bowl, finely
wrought and chased with silver, on a small table near
the bed. However, it is filled with garbage and very tar-
nished, so it looks as if it were worth 10 silver pieces,
rather than the actual 50 gold pieces, unless it is closely
inspected.
(DM Note: Orc  losses cannot be replaced. If this tribe is
attacked, they will have the males at area 15. watching the
entrance, ready for a second try by the adventurers. If the
leader is slain, the survivors will seek safety in area B., if pos-
sible; otherwise, they will flee the place entirely, carrying
their goods away.)
D.
17.
18.
19.
GOBLIN LAIR: The natural cave quickly turns into the
worked stone tunnels typical of this whole complex. The
passageways here are very busy, and for every 10’
distance covered by the party there is a 1 in 6 chance
that they will encounter a group of goblins (see below)
Check each time the party travels 30’ (a 3 in 6 chance)
until wandering goblins are encountered, then check
no further. When an encounter occurs, the entire bunch
of goblins will attack and cry out an alarm (Bree-Yark!)
at the same time. Wandering goblins are in addition to
those found in numbered areas.
Wandering Goblins: 6 males (AC 6, HD l-l, hp 3 each,
#AT I, D 1-6, MV 
(20’), Save NM, ML 7). Each will have d6
silver pieces. (They are patrolling and carrying mes-
sages back and forth. The group will also be carrying
several bags 
(d6) of fairly good foodstuffs - not worth
much, but quite suitable for human fare.)
GUARD CHAMBER: 6 goblin guards with several spears
each (AC 6, HD I-I, hp 3 each, #AT  1,  D 1-6, Save NM, ML
7) are alertly watching both passages here for intruders
of any sort, including hobgoblins from the south. They
each have d4 x 10 copper and d4 silver pieces. The
chamber has a barrel with 60 spears, a small table, 2
benches and a keg of water.
GUARD CHAMBER: This is the same as 17.,  above,
except the goblins watch mainly to the east. If there is a
cry of “BREE-YARK” (similar to “Hey Rube!“), 2 of these
guards will rush to the secret door, toss a sack with 250
gold pieces in it to the ogre 
(E.,  22., below) and ask him
to help them. The ogre will accept the payment and
will enter the goblins’ lair and move to attack intruders
immediately, if possible. The sack of gold coins is
hidden in a water barrel in the corner by the secret
door.
COMMON ROOM: There are 10 males (AC 6, HD l-l, hp
3 each, #AT  I, D 1-6, Save NM, ML 7)  and 14females and
6 young (who do not fight) dwelling here. Food is pre-
pared and eaten here, and general meetings are like-
wise held here. There are heaps of bedding, tables,
stools, benches, etc. all around the whole place, mak-
ing it very cluttered. Each male has d6 silver pieces,
16

===== PAGE 23 =====
each female has 2d6 copper pieces. If the wandering
group of goblins has not been encountered when the
adventures enter this area, be certain to have those 6
additional males in this chamber.
20. CHIEFTAIN’S ROOM: The goblin leader (AC 4 due to
chain mail and shield, HD 3, hp II, #AT I, D 2-7 due to
Strength and skill, Save F 2, ML 9), 3 guards (AC 6, HD
1 +I, hp 7, #AT  I, D 1-6, Save NM, ML 9 due to presence
of chief), and several females are quartered here. The
chief has a purse with 18 gold and 2 platinum pieces in
it; each of his guards has 8 
electrum  pieces and d6
silver pieces. There is a silver cup (value 90 gold
pieces) under his bed. He and the guards have bows
hung on the wall, and if there is time they will take them
down and use them. If hard-pressed, 2 of the female
goblins can fight as well as males, and will do so (2 fe-
male goblins (AC 7, HD I-I, hp 2 each, #AT I, D 1-6, MV
(20’), Save NM, ML 9 due to the presence of the chief);
the other females do not fight.
This place has quite a bit of good furniture in it - all
scaled to goblin-size, of course. A low bench near the
bed has a secret drawer under the seat, and inside is
stored the treasure of the goblins: a tapestry with silver
and gold threads which is worth 900 gold pieces.
Nearby is a stand with a pewter bowl which holds 273
silver and 321 copper pieces.
21. STORAGE CHAMBER: Note that at position g. there are 4
goblin guards on duty (AC 7, HD I-I, hp 4 each, #AT I, D
1-6, Save NM, ML 7), armed with ready crossbows and
swords. Many bales, boxes, crates, barrels, and sacks
are stacked and heaped in the large chamber. They
contain cloth, food, beer, and wine 
- all of no special
worth. The hard-working but not-too-bright goblins con-
tinually bring supplies of stolen and looted goods to
this place. They do not realize that their large cousins,
the hobgoblins at area 
F., below, use a secret door
known only to them to steal the best of the foodstuffs
and drink. If the adventurers stay in this chamber for
more than 1 turn, a party of 4 hobgoblins will come
through the secret door:
4 Hobgoblins: (AC 6, HD 1 + 1, hp 6 each, #AT  I, D 1-8,
MV (30’), Save F I, ML 9.) Each carries d4 gold pieces.
(DM  Note: Goblin losses cannot be replaced. If they are
being soundly defeated by intruders, the goblins will
attempt to hide or flee east. Those who do so will go from
area 
17. to area 23., inform the hobgoblins, and join forces
with them, so adjust encounters appropriately.)
E. OGRE CAVE: Persons entering this place will notice a
strong, sour odor and then notice what appears to be a
huge bear sprawled asleep in the southwestern part of
the cave. This is nothing more than the skin of a huge
bear which the ogre killed and uses as a bed, making it
more comfortable by heaping leaves underneath. The
ogre sits in the eastern portion of his lair, and noise will
certainly bring him ready to do battle. This huge Ogre
has AC 4 due to his thick hide and another thick bear-
skin he wears for protection. Because of his high
strength, he hits opponents for 3-12 (1d10+2)  points of
damage (AC 4, HD 4 + I, hp 25, D 3-12, MV 
(30’), Save F 4,
ML IO). The ogre has grown wealthy by serving as a
mercenary 
- generally on the side of the goblins (and
their occasional allies, the hobgoblins), although he
has been bought off by the orcs  and gnolls from time to
time. He will rush to aid the goblins when they toss him
the sack of coins (see 18., above). If anyone offers him a
greater fee - one which he can actually see and feel
- it is 90% likely that he will simply take it (and the gob-
lins’ money too!), and return to his lair.
17
22. The ogre sits here on top of a great leather bag. In this
bag are seven large sacks which contain:
#1: 287 silver pieces; #2:  a hard cheese; #3:  182 copper
pieces and 91 electrum  pieces; #4:  289 gold pieces; #5:
a keg of brandy (value 80 gold pieces); #6:  303 copper
pieces; #7:  241 gold pieces (actually lead coins with a
wash of gold, so value of each is only I copper!).
If intruders offer him a bribe of 20 or more gold piece
value, the ogre will be 90% likely to allow them to leave
unmolested, but if he catches them again, he will
attempt to kill them, whatever the offers. Hidden under
a heap of old bones in the southern portion of his cave
are 6 magic 
arrows +1, a potion of invisibility, and a
magic scroll with 2 cleric spells - cure light wounds,
hold person.
F. HOBGOBLIN  LAIR: Seldom are these fierce creatures
troubled by marauders, for the entrance to their lair is
guarded by a stout, barred door at the back of the
entry cave. Skulls are lined along the walls, and sever-
al are affixed to the oaken door to highlight a warning
written in common runes: “Come in - we’d like to have
you for dinner!” (Which could be misinterpreted as a
cordial invitation to dine  .) Careful inspection of
the barred door has a 1 in 6 chance per person
examining it of detecting a secret mechanism which
allows a person outside to slide the bar back so the
portal can be entered. If it is forced open, it will require
three Is (on a d6) to indicate the bar has been broken,
and the noise will alert area 
26. If a knock spell is used
to open the door, the noise of the falling bar will be
heard, but guards will not have time to react, so the in-
truders will have two rounds of time before the guards
will come.
23. COMMON ROOM: This place quarters 5 males (AC 6, HD
1 + I, hp 5 each, #AT I, D 1-8, MV (30’), Save F I, ML 8)
with d4 x 10 silver pieces each; 8 females (AC 7. HD 1,
hp 4 each, 
#AT  I, D 1-6, Save F 1, ML 7) with 2d6 silver
pieces each, and 3 young which do not fight and have
no treasure. There are heaps of cloth and skins for beds,
some odds and ends of furniture, and a small barrel of
beer, buckets, etc. in the place, all worthless. The males
are watching the east door which communicates with
the goblin lair 
(D., above) and are battle-ready.
24. TORTURE CHAMBER/PLAYROOM/FOOD STORAGE:
There are 2 very large, ugly hobgoblins here. Each is
equal to a 2 + 1 hit dice monster, one having 10 hit
points, the other 8 hit points, and both wear chain mail
(AC 5). One also has a whip, as well as a sword, so that
he can strike at opponents up to 15’ distant, and if a hit
is scored, the whip will jerk the victim off his or her feef
and stun (paralyze) him or her for 1-2 melee rounds.
However, once closely engaged, the hobgoblin can-
not make use of his whip, so he will cast it aside. Each of
these monsters has a purse with d6 each copper, silver,
and 
electrum  pieces. The larger also has a silver armlet
worth 135 gold pieces. They guard 6 prisoners who are
chained to the walls. There are two chairs, a small
table, a central fire pit, and various implements of
torture in the chamber. The keys to the prisoners’ chains
are hanging on the wall in the southwest corner. The
prisoners are:
#1: A plump, half-dead merchant, scheduled to be
eaten tonight in a special banquet. If he is rescued
and returned to the KEEP, the Guild will pay a 100
gold piece reward, grant the rescuers honorary
Guild status, and exempt them for one year from
any fees, dues, taxes, and the like which the Guild
would normally collect.

===== PAGE 24 =====
#2:
#3:
#4:
#5:
#6:
An orc  (AC 7, HD 1,  hp 4, ML 8) who will fight goblins
and hobgoblins gladly, if handed a weapon (of
course, he will seek to escape from the adventurers
at first chance, taking whatever he can with him,
and informing his fellows at 
B.  (above), of what hap-
pened).
A man-at-arms (AC 9 due to no armor, F 1,  hp 5, ML
7) who formerly served as a guard for the mer-
chant. He will take service with rescuers for 1 year if
an offer is made, for room and board only, if given
armor and weapons.
A normal female, the merchant’s wife, in fact, who
is also slated for the big feast. She will personally re-
ward her rescuers by giving them a 
dagger +1 she
has in her room back at the KEEP.
A crazy gnoll (AC 9 due to no armor, HD 2, hp 9, #AT
I, D 1-6, Save F 2, ML 8) who will snatch up a
weapon and attack his rescuers if he is freed. (He
will cause only 1-6 points of damage due to his
weakened condition.)
Another man-at-arms as #3,  above, who will be-
have the same way his companion will.
25. COMMON CHAMBER:  This large place is used for
meals, meetings, and general revels of the hobgoblin
tribe. There are many tables and benches set out now,
as the place is being readied for the coming feast. 4
males (AC 6, HD 1 + I, hp 5 each, 
#AT  1,  D 1-8, MV (30’),
Save F I, ML 8), 5 females (AC 7, HD I, hp 4 each, #AT I,
D 1-6, Save F I, ML 7), and 9 young (who will not fight)
are working here. Males have d4 gold pieces each,
females 2d6 silver pieces. The head table has a set of
pewter dishes on it, and their value is 25 g.p. for the set.
26.
27.
GUARD ROOM: 6 hobgoblins (AC 7 when using cross-
bows or 6, HD 1+ I, hp 6 each, #AT 1 or 1/2 for crossbows,
D 1-6, Save F I, ML 8), 3 with crossbows which they’ll fire
once before dropping and taking their maces for close
combat. Each carries d4 each gold, silver, and copper
pieces. If they hear the door being battered, or the bar
falling, all but one will immediately rush to the entry,
while the other will alert area 27., and then join his fel-
lows. It takes two rounds for them to reach the entry,
and the sixth will join the other guards on round four.
ARMORY: 3 hobgoblin guards (AC 5 due to chain mail,
HD1+1, hp6 each, #AT 1, D1-8, Save F1, ML 8) are on
duty here at all times. If warning comes, two will move
to the door to wait in ambush, and the other will pass
through the secret entrance (to area 
31.) to alert the
chief. Each guard has 2d4 each of silver and electrum
pieces. In the chamber are the following:
1 suit of man-sized plate mail
1 suit of dwarf-sized plate mail
3 suits of man-sized chain mail
2 suits of elf-sized chain mail
7 suits of man-sized leather armor
11 shields
6 daggers
1 battle axe
4 maces
3 swords
2 bows (short)
1 longbow
13 crossbows
11 score* arrows (14 arrows have silver heads)
9 score’ bolts
51 spears
19 pole arms
42 helmets of various sizes
28.
29.
Armor-type items are standing or hung from racks.
Weapons are in chests or on pegs or in racks.
STOREROOM: Goods stolen from the stupid goblins are
kept here until needed above. There will be a single
guard (AC 6, HD 1 +I, hp 5, #AT I, D 1-8, Save 
F I, ML 8)
on duty here at all times. He has 2d8 electrum  pieces. (If
the looting party does not encounter adventurers in
area 
21.. they will also be here: 4 hobgoblins (AC 6, HD
1 + 1,  hp 6 each, #AT  1,  D 1-8, Save F 1,  ML 8). Each of the
four carries d4 gold pieces.
GUARD ROOM:  2 hobgoblin guards with crossbows
and swords stand here. (AC 7, HD 
1+ I, hp 5 each, #AT 1
or 1/2 for crossbows, D 1-6, Save F 1,  ML 8.) With them are
2 females who will fight (AC 7, HD I, hp 4 each, #AT I, D
1-6, Save F I, ML 7). Males have 2d6 each silver and
copper pieces, females have no treasure. There are
two cots, a bench, a stool, and a large box (filled with
soiled clothing) in the room. If attackers are seen, one
female will alert area 30., the other area 31.; then both
will fight.
30. HOBGOBLIN  CHIEF’S QUARTERS:  This great, ugly crea-
ture (AC 2 due to his plate mail and shield, HD 5, hp 22,
#AT  I, D 3-10 due to Strength and skill, MV (30’), Save F 5,
ML 10) has 5 platinum and 31 gold pieces in his purse.
He wears a silver and gem studded belt (value 600 gold
pieces). With him are 4 large female hobgoblins, each
equal to a male (AC 6, HD 1 + 1,  hp 6 each, #AT 1,  D 1-8,
Save F I, ML 10 due to the chief), and each has 2d6
gold pieces. The room is crowded with furniture and
junk - all of no real worth, except that there is a false
bottom in a huge iron box filled with mangy animal
skins, The secret portion of the iron box holds 25
platinum, 200 gold, 115 electrum, and 400 silver pieces
plus a 100 gold piece gem and a potion of poison.
Amidst a heap of kindling wood near the fireplace
(southeast corner) there is concealed a wand of para-
lyzation, but it has only 7 charges left in it.
31. GUARD ROOM: 4 hobgoblins (AC 5 due to chain mail,
HD 1 +I, hp 5 each, #AT I, D 1-8, Save F I, ML 8), each
with 2d6 electrum, silver, and copper pieces. They are
alert for danger, and when notified, they will pass the
word to areas 29., 30., 
and/or  27., as required. The room
is rather bare, having only 2 pallets, a stool, and a
large water barrel.
(DM Note: As usual, hobgoblin losses cannot be replaced
during the course of normal play, which is a period of only
several days or weeks of action. The hobgoblins are fairly
smart, well-organized, and alert. If their chief is killed, they
will typically seek to escape alive, unless their opponents
are obviously weak and inferior. Survivors will reinforce the
goblins at  D., above, unless their attackers are very
dangerous and the hobgoblins can see that the whole
Caves’ area is in trouble. . .)
G. SHUNNED CAVERN: Even the normal inhabitants of this
area, including the ogre, stay away from here, for the
creatures who dwell herein are exceptionally danger-
ous. Any creature foolish enough to venture out at night
becomes fair game. A horrible stench is noticed as
soon as creatures enter the cavern area.
EMPTY GALLERY:  The odor of these places is awful.
Bones and rotting corpses are spread here and there
amidst a litter of dead leaves and old branches. If a
careful search is made, adventurers will find a coin
every round:  1-2 = 1 copper piece, 3-4 = 1 silver
piece, 5-6  = 1 
electrum  piece. The sound of such
searching might bring visitors! Roll on the table below
for an encounter:
32.
18

===== PAGE 25 =====
33.
34.
H.
1-
2-
3-
Owl bear from 34., below
2-12 giant rats (AC 7, HD 
1/2, hp 2 each, #AT 1, D
1-3 plus disease, MV (40’), Save F 1,  ML 8)
Gray ooze from 33., below
4-6 - Nothing is attracted to the noise
SHALLOW POOL: This portion of the cavern is very wet,
and all of the walls and the floor have a sheen from the
dampness, There is a large pool of shallow water (as
shown), and a few white, blind fish are swimming there-
in. There is a jewel-encrusted goblet worth 1,300 gold
pieces in the water. There are 3 gray ooze monsters in
this place (only 2 if 1 has already been encountered in
a 32. area). Each causes 1-8 hit points of damage on
the first round, unless attacking from above, because
half of their damage will be taken up in destroying the
foot and leg protection of the victim. Thereafter, attacks
cause 2-16 points of damage, as do attacks from
above. (AC 8, HD 3*, hp 15 each, #AT I, D 1-8 first round,
then 2-16 destroys armor, MV 
(3’) Save F 2, ML 12.) The
pair always in the place are the one at the south edge
of the pool and the one on the ceiling in the southwest-
ern portion of the area. There is only a 1 in 20 chance of
noticing either unless a pole device is used to prod the
area before the pool or unless two or more torches are
held aloft so as to fully light the ceiling area. The third
gray ooze will be on the ceiling to the left of the en-
trance, if present.
OWL BEAR’S DEN: The owl bear (AC 5, HD 5, hp 30, #AT 3,
D I-811-811-8, MV (40’) Save F 3, ML 9) sleeps in the most
southerly part of its den, digesting a meal of gnoll it just
caught at dawn. If aroused, the beast will roar and rush
out, striking with its two great paws and toothy beak for
1-8 points of damage per hit, with three such attacks
per round, i.e. a claw, another clawing attack, and
then ,a snap of its beak. It has no treasure, but amidst
the many sticks and bones it sleeps on is a bone tube (1
in 6 chance of noticing it for each person searching the
heap, with a check for each once per round) with a
protection from undead scroll within it.
BUGBEAR  LAIR: The group of bugbears is not numerous,
but what it lacks in numbers, it makes up for in strength
and cunning. There are signs beside the entrance cave
in kobold, orcish, goblin, etc. Each says: “Safety,
security  and repose for all humanoids who enter -
WELCOME! (Come in and report to the first guard on the
left for a hot meal and bed assignment.)”
35. GUARD ROOM: 3 bugbears (AC 5, HD 3 + 1, hp 11 each,
#AT I. D 2-8. MV (30’). Save F 3, ML 9) with 2d10  gold
pieces each, These creatures lounge on stools near a
smoking brazier which has skewers of meat toasting
over the coals. Each will ignore his great mace when
intruders enter, reaching instead for the food. Though
they do not speak common, they will grab and eat a
chunk, then offer the skewers to the adventurers 
- and
suddenly use them as swords to strike first blow (at +2
bonus to hit due to surprise!) unless the victims are very
alert. There are two cots in the place and a large gong.
If the battle goes badly, one will smite the gong to warn
the others in the complex.
36.
CHIEFTAIN’S ROOM: This tough old bugbear is equal to
an ogre (AC 5, HD 4+1,  hp 18, #AT I, D 3-12 (d10+2),
Save F 4, ML 9). He has a pouch with a key, 29 platinum
pieces, and 3 50 g.p. gems in it. With him is a female
bugbear equal to the male (AC 5, HD 3 + I, hp 12, #AT I,
D 2-8, Save F 3, ML 9). She has gold earrings worth 100
g.p. The furnishings of the room are battered and
crude, but several pieces of silk are mixed up with the
bedding, in all 6 may be found; the party will be able to
37.
38.
sell them for 20 g.p. each. There is a gray chest stuck up
on a ledge near the ceiling which will only be spotted if
the room is carefully searched. It contains 1,462 silver
pieces, a 30 pound statue of alabaster and ivory (worth
200 gold pieces), and 2 potions of healing (which will
break if the chest is roughly handled). It will take three
or four strong characters to bring this down safely.
There is a hand axe 
+1 on the wall, and if the chieftain
has the chance, he will take it down and hurl it first,
then close for full melee. He knows of the secret door 
-
it is his escape route in desperate situations.
SPOILS ROOM: The heavy door is locked, and the key is
in the pouch of the chieftain (36.,  above). Inside are a
shield + 1, being used as a tray to hold a heap of dried
herbs (catnip, something these particular bugbears
relish), various boxes and crates of high quality dried or
salted foodstuffs, leather hides in a stack, 3 barrels of
ale, a tun of wine, and a small keg of oil (20 flask
capacity). (If all but the shield and oil are sold at the
KEEP, the value will be 400 gold pieces.) Breaking the
lock or smashing the door will bring the guards from 35.
and the chieftain and his mate from 36..
COMMON ROOM: 3 males (AC 5, HD 3 + I, hp 12 each,
#AT I, D 2-8, MV 
(30’),  Save F 3, ML 9) with 2d6 each of
gold and silver pieces, 7 females (AC 6, HD 2, hp 8
each, #AT I, D 1-8, Save F 2, ML 8), and 3 young 
bug-
bears (AC 7, HD 1, hp 3 each, #AT 1,  D 1-4, Save F 1,  ML 7)
live here. There are piles of bedding and old garments
here and there. Blackened by soot, there is a silver urn
worth 175 g.p. near the fireplace, but only close
examination will reveal its true value.
39. GUARD ROOM: Watching here are 2 males (AC 5, HD
3 + 1,  hp 10 each, #AT 1,  D 2-8, Save F 3, ML 9) with 2d8
gold pieces each, and 3 females (AC 6, HD 2, hp 7
each, #AT 1, D 1-8, Save F 2, ML 8) each with 
d10  gold
pieces. Each has a spear in addition to normal
weapons, so that they can hurl this missile and then
close to fight hand-to-hand. These bugbears tend to the
slaves as well as help to guard the entrance to their
lair. There are bedrolls, a bench, a long table, a water
pail, and sacks of meal scattered here and there in the
chamber. Keys to the doors to 40. and 41. are on the
wall opposite the stairs. Both corridors to the slave pens
have meal sacks and small boxes and barrels of provi-
sions and watered wine along their length.
40. SLAVE PEN: The iron door is secured by a bar, chain,
and heavy padlock. Inside is a litter of straw, a bucket,
and the following slaves: 3 kobolds (AC 9, HD 
1/2, hp 2
each, MV (40’), Save NM, ML 6), 1 goblin (AC 9, HD l-l,
hp 3 each, MV (20’), Save NM, ML 7), 4 orcs  (AC 9, HD I,
hp 5 each, MV (40’), Save F 1, ML 8), and 2 humans (AC 9,
F 1,  hp 4 each, MV (40’), ML 7)  - optionally add 1 dwarf
(AC 9, D 2, hp 12, MV (40’), ML 8) and 2 elves (AC 9, E 1,  hp
7 each, MV (40’), ML 8) in place of 2 of the kobolds and 1
of the orcs.  They are chained to the wall with a com-
mon chain and a heavy padlock. All will fight against
the bugbears if given weapons. (Treat as AC 9 unless
protection is provided.) The humans will serve as those
noted in F., 24., above. The dwarf and elves, if used by
the DM, may agree to help the adventurers as long as
they stay in the Caves’ area continuously and fight. The
other creatures will desert at first opportunity.
41. SLAVE PEN: Another barred, chained, and padlocked
iron door keeps safe the following slaves: 3 hobgoblins
(AC 8, HD 1+ 1,  hp 6 each, MV (30’), Save F 1,  ML 8), 2
gnolls (AC 8, HD 2 + 1,  hp 9 each, MV (30’), Save F 2, ML
8), 1 (rebel) bugbear (AC 7, HD 3+  I, hp 14, MV (30’),
Save F 3, ML 9) and 1 huge human - a seeming wild-
man, with mighty muscles, shaggy hair and beard, and
staring eyes. He is a Hero (a 4th level fighter). His 18
19

===== PAGE 26 =====
Strength and + 1 for his level give him a total of +4  “to
hit” bonus and + 3 to damage (AC 9 due to no armor, F
4, hp 24, #AT  1,  D 4-9, ML 10). (He is prone to fits of berserk
fury due to his enslavement, and if armed and in
combat it is 50% likely per round that he will strike a
friend instead of a foe in his lust to slay!) If freed, these
slaves will attempt to flee, although they will attack
bugbears who are in the way of their escape. There are
two exceptions: the big bugbear hates his fellows, and
will take arms and fight against them or any of the other
inhabitants of the whole area; he will continue to do so
for as long as the party stays there. The hero is an evil
person; once he is armed, and after battle madness
leaves him, he will either kill the adventurers who freed
him, so as to have all their treasure for himself, or else
he will steal whatever is most valuable and then sneak
off - but only if he knows the party is too strong for him.
(DM Note: There are 2 bugbears out hunting, and they will
return with a human corpse and 83 gold pieces the day
after adventurers first enter the bugbear lair. They will be
placed on guard duty at 35., if appropriate, and their
statistics are the same as the guards there. Bugbears will
stay in the place until all are dead, save the chieftain, who
will seek help from the minotaur at I., 45.)
I. CAVES OF THE MINOTAUR:  This labyrinth* houses a
number of nasty things, but the worst is a fiendishly
clever minotaur who abides herein. Immediately upon
entering the place, adventurers will feel slightly dizzy 
-
the effects of a powerful spell which will cause them to
lose all sense of direction.
The minotaur will agree to help the bugbears against
invaders at the cost of one human slave every three
days of service 
- of course, the slave is eaten in that
period. The minotaur keeps only the choicest of
treasures, tossing unwanted loot to whomever happens
to find it at the mouth of the labyrinth.
(DM Notes: You may allow players to find a few low-value
coins, normal equipment, weapons, or armor at the en-
trance. After 30’ past the cave mouth, a spell of 
direction
confusion (a special spell) will begin to function, so start to
misdirect them by naming incorrect directions, i.e. south-
east instead of northeast, east instead of west, etc. Don’t
worry about calling the same passage as a different direc-
tion should they travel over the same route twice 
- that’s
the effect of the magic on them. You may wish to allow the
mapping character a secret saving throw every couple of
turns, a 19 or 20 indicating that the effect has been thrown
off.)
42. STIRGE  CAVE: There are 13 of these flying monsters
here: (AC 7, HD 1, hp 3 each, #AT 1 at +2  to hit, D 1-3 first
round plus 1-4 per additional round, MV (60’) Save F I,
ML 9). If opponent is hit, stirge will automatically suck
blood each round thereafter, doing 1-4 hit points of
damage due to blood drain until victim is dead or
stirge is killed. The minotaur loves to catch and eat
these creatures, so they avoid him, and they are quite
hungry. In fact, this hunger makes it 90% likely that they
will be squeaking and hooting to one another, so the
party won’t be surprised. They have no treasure.
43. FIRE BEETLES: Three dwell in this area: (AC 4, HD 1 + 2, hp
7 each, #AT  1, D 2-8 (2d4),  MV (40’), Save F I, ML 7). They
too are hungry and will hasten to attack any persons
entering their area. They have no treasure, but 2 glands
above their eyes and one in their abdomen will glow
with a red light, 10’ radius, for 1-6 days after the beetle is
killed.
44. FIRE BEETLES: There are 2 of these creatures here, in all
respects like those in 43., above.
45. THE MINOTAUR: This huge monster has AC 4 due to a
great chain mail coat he wears, and carries a spear
+1. When he first attacks, the minotaur (AC 4, HD 6, hp
35, #AT  1 or 2, D 4-9 or I-611-6, MV (40’), Save F 6, ML 12)
will rush forward and stab with his spear for 4-9 (d6+ 3)
points of damage, due to his strength. The next round
he will gore and bite doing 1-6 points of damage with
each successful attack. The minotaur may only use his
spear 
or his horns and bite.
When intruders enter the area, the minotaur im-
mediately moves to attack. He knows this area so weft
that the only way for victims to escape is to go through
the secret door into area 36., or else to run out of the
place and climb a large tree.
The cave the minotaur dwells in has skulls and bones
arrayed in decorative patterns. The secret door is
actually a slab of stone which takes not less than 3
humans to move. (It will be noticed by careful checking
of the walls, but how it is moved requires a roll of a 1 on
a six-sided die to indicate the searcher has found
where it can be grasped. All of the minotaur’s treasure
is behind this slab of rock. It hides:
1 locked chest (with poison needle in lock) 
- con-
tents 930 gold and 310 electrum  pieces
1 staff of healing
1 suit of man-sized (optionally elf-sized) plate mail
+1
1 locked coffer - contents 3 potion bottles (gase-
ous form, healing, growth)
1 locked chest - contents 3 pieces of jewelry worth
1600, 900,  and 600 g.p. respectively
20

===== PAGE 27 =====
J. GNOLL LAIR: The entry into this place is a small cave,
and only at the end will worked stone be visible. If the
adventurers have a light or make much noise, the
guards (46.) will certainly be alerted and ready.
46. GUARD ROOM: There are always 4 gnolls (AC 5, HD 2,
hp 9 each, #AT 1,  D 2-8, MV (30’), Save F 2, ML 8) on duty
here. Two have bows, and will shoot at intruders until
melee takes place; they will then run for help while the
other two fight. Each gnoll has d8 each of electrum,
silver, and copper pieces.
47. GUARD ROOM: 3 males (AC 5, HD 2, hp 8 each, #AT I, D
2-8, Save F 2, ML 8) and 5 females (AC 6, HD 1 + 1,  hp 5
each, #AT  I, D 1-8, Save F I, ML 8) are quartered here.
They will be ready to fight immediately. The males have
d6 gold pieces each, the females have d4. There is a
scattering of rude furniture in the place, heaps of bed-
ding on the floor, several hides and pelts on the walls
(one is a valuable sable cloak worth 450 g.p.), and a
barrel of water in the southwest corner of the room.
48. LOCKED ROOM: This chamber is a store room and ar-
mory. Besides the usual provisions, there are 7 shields, a
suit of dwarf-sized chain mail, 12 hand axes, 3 
long-
bows, 5 quivers of arrows (20 in each), and a sword -1,
cursed. One barrel of exceptionally fine ale is leaking,
and the odor will tempt adventurers to taste it. It is so
good, in fact, that there is a 5 in 6 chance per taste that
he or she will draw a healthy draught and then spend
the next I-4 turns drinking. (If this occurs, be sure that
you have the appropriate characters sing, make noise,
and act foolishly. Any of their attacks will be at -2 to hit;
this will continue for as many turns as they spent drink-
ing, i.e. l-4).
49. 
COMMON ROOM: This place quarters the gnoll tribe -
6 males (AC 5, HD 2, hp 8 each, #AT  I, D 2-8, Save F 2, ML
8)  II females (AC 6, HD 1 +I, hp 5 each, #AT I, D 1-8,
Save F I, ML 8), and 18 young who do not fight. Males
have d6 each of electrum  and silver pieces, females
d10  silver pieces each. There is the usual clutter of
worthless furniture in the room.
50. GNOLL  CHIEFTAIN’S QUARTERS: The gnoll leader (AC 3
due to pieces of plate mail worn, HD 3, hp 17, #AT  I, D 4-
10 (2d4+2)  due to his strength, Save F 3. ML IO), his two
sons (AC 4, HD 2+1,  hp IO each, #AT I, D 3-9 (2d4+1),
Save F 2, ML IO) and four female gnolls (AC 6, HD 1 + I,
hp 5 each, #AT 1, D 1-8, Save F 1, ML 9) are waiting in this
room. The chieftain has a pair of silver armbands  worth
50 gold pieces each, and there are 39 gold pieces in
his belt pouch. His sons have d10  each of gold, elec-
trum and silver pieces, Each female wears a silver neck
chain worth 30 gold pieces and has 2d6 electrum
pieces in addition. The furnishings of the place are
crude and battered. A large metal pot beneath a flag-
stone in the fireplace alcove hides 200 copper, 157
silver, 76 electrum, and 139 gold pieces.
The secret door and passage to area  K., 63.,  is un-
known to all. Just inside the entrance is the skeleton of a
human thief, his leg is broken and he must have died
here trying to escape through the secret door. The
rotten leather armor and corroded weapons are value-
less, but the purse at his belt holds 12 gems of 50 g.p.
base value each, and the 
elven boots upon his bony
feet are still in usable shape.
(DM Note: Losses by the gnolls cannot be replaced. They
are in a loose alliance with the orcs, so if there are surviving
gnolls, they will move to the orc  areas and vice versa. If you
wish, allow the chieftain to be able to escape enemies by
climbing up the chimney of the fireplace in his area.)
K. SHRINE OF EVIL CHAOS: A faint, foul draft issues from
the 20’ wide cave mouth which is the entrance to this
place. The worn path through the copse of obscenely
twisted and oddly bloated trees gives those approach-
ing along its length an eerie sense of unease, and as
soon as they enter the cave mouth a dim awareness of
lurking evil will pervade their senses. Red strata inter-
twines with bulging black veins running through the
hewn rock walls beyond the entrance. The wide corri-
dors and chambers are deathly still. A faint groaning
sound, and a shrill piping may be occasionally heard,
barely perceptible even if the party is absolutely silent
and listening.
The floors are smooth and worn by the tread of count-
less feet of the worshipers at this grim place. The foot-
steps of intruders will echo alarmingly in these vaulted
halls (+ 2 chance of being surprised), and extreme
care must be taken to muffle such sounds if the party
has any hopes of remaining undetected until the mo-
ment of their choosing. Continual noise will bring a
group of zombie guards to investigate:
8 zombies: (AC 8. HD 2, hp 8 each, #AT  1,  D 1-8, MV
(40’), Save F 1, ML 12). These ghastly monsters are
clad in filthy red and black striped uniforms. Each
carries a cleaver-like battle axe. (Each wears an
amulet’ of protection  from turning, so attempts by
a cleric to turn them are made as if they were
ghouls rather than zombies.)
51. BOULDER FILLED PASSAGE: Large rocks and boulders
have been placed here in order to seal off this tunnel. It
will take 100 man-turns to open a way large enough for
a human to pass through into the area beyond. (You
have the option of allowing this passage to lead to the
outside somewhere to the southwest of the 
Caves of
Chaos, or you may choose to have it go all the way to
the Cave of the Unknown. If you opt for the latter case,
you must, of course, prepare an appropriate under-
ground area map and stock it with monsters and
treasures.)
52. HALL OF SKELETONS: This unusual audience chamber
has a dais and throne-like chair set with 4 large red
gems (500 g.p. each) at the south end. It is otherwise
empty except for a dozen skeletons, clad in rags of
chain mail and bearing battered shields and rusty
scimitars (swords), propped against the walls. These
bony guards do not move, and any attempt to turn
them immediately upon entering the chamber will
have no effect, as they are obviously not animated.
However, as soon as intruders touch the dais or throne
chair, these monsters will spring to life from their posi-
tions on either wall of the chamber. Each has an 
amu-
let of protection from turning  upon it, so they are
turned by a cleric as if they were zombies (AC 7, HD 1,
hp 3 each, #AT  1, D 1-6, Save F 1, ML 12). They have no
treasure.
Once the skeletons are disposed of, it is an easy matter
to pry the 4 garnets (gems) from the back of the chair.
53. GUARD ROOM: There will always be 8 zombies (AC 8,
HD 2, hp 8 each, #AT I, D 1-8, Save F I, ML 12), turned as
if they were ghouls due to a amulet of protection from
turning hulking silently here, 4 at either end of the hall.
Anyone entering will be attacked unless they are
robed in temple garb (see area 54.. below) and have
an amulet identical to the ones which the undead
guard groups or priests wear. There is no treasure here.
54. ACOLYTES’ CHAMBER: There are 4 acolytes (1st level
clerics) here (AC 5, C 1, hp 4 each, #AT  1, D 1-6, ML 8), all
21

===== PAGE 28 =====
dressed in rusty-red robes, with black cowls*. Under
these robes each wears chain mail and a mace at his
belt. Each carries 10 gold pieces in his purse, and the
leader wears an amulet of 
protection from good. This
amulet circles the wearer with a magic barrier. The
amulet serves as some protection from good attacks
(attacks by monsters of some alignment other than the
wearer’s alignment) by adding 1 to the wearer’s saving
throws, and subtracting 1 from the “to hit” die roll of
these opponents. The spell will also keep out attacks
from enchanted (magical) monsters (such as gar-
goyles), but not missile fire attacks from these creatures.
Their room contains four hard pallets*, a brazier*, a
table, four stools, a cabinet for clothing, a water pail, a
waste bucket, and a flagon* of wine and four cups.
There is nothing of value amongst these items.
55. CHAPEL OF EVIL  CHAOS: This place is of red stone, the
floor being a mosaic checkerboard of black and red.
The south wall is covered by a huge tapestry which de-
picts a black landscape, barren trees, and unidentifi-
able but horrible black shapes in silhouette 
- possibly
demons of some sort  - holding aloft a struggling
human. A gray sky is torn by wisps of purple clouds, and
a bloody moon with a skull-like face on it leers down
upon the scene. Four black pillars support the domed
ceiling some 25’ overhead. Between these columns,
just in front of the tapestry, is a stone altar of red veined
black rock, rough-hewn and stained brown with dried
blood. Upon it are 4 ancient bronze vessels 
- a shallow
bowl, a pair of goblets, and a ewer, a vase-shaped
pitcher. They are also bloodstained but obviously worth
a great deal of money. (The value is 1,000 g.p. for each
cup, and 2,000 g.p. for each of the other items, but
these are relics of evil, and any character possessing
them will 
not part with them or sell them nor allow
others to handle them.) For each character who picks
up one of these objects, the DM should have the char-
acter roll a saving throw vs. Magic at -2. Any who save
successfully will get a “feeling of great evil” about the
object, and he or she may voluntarily put it down. If the
save fails, the character will rapidly fall under the influ-
ence of a demonic spell and within 6 days become a
servant of chaos and evil, returning to this chapel to re-
place the relics, and then staying as a guard forever
after. If someone attempts to destroy these relics the
great bell (see 58., below) will sound and the Shrine’s
residents will come running in 3 rounds. If a 
detect evil
spell is cast upon these items, they will glow an ugly
purple, and all good characters will feel instant loath-
ing for them. If the character who has taken them has a
dispel magic and then a bless spell cast upon him or
her, there is a 60% chance of removing the evil on the
first day, 50% on the 2nd,  40% on the 3rd,  30% on the
4th. 20% on the 5th,  and 10% on the 6th. Otherwise,
nothing will be able to save the character!)
56. ADEPTS’ CHAMBER: There are 4 adepts (2nd level
clerics) here, each clad in a black robe with a maroon
colored cowl* (AC 3, C 2, hp 
8 each, #AT  I, D 1-6, ML 8).
They have plate mail beneath their garments, and
each bears a mace. Their waists are circled with
copper chains (worth 40 g.p. each) with skull-shaped
clasps fashioned of bone. Each carries a purse with 20
gold and 5 platinum pieces, and each wears an amu-
let of 
protection from good (#54.),  which makes their ef-
fective armor class 2 vs. good creatures. The first and
second have cause light wounds (does 2-7 points of
damage to creature touched; normal “to hit” roll must
be made to touch victim) spells, the third a 
light spell,
the fourth a cause fear (those who fail to save vs. Spells
must flee in terror for 1 turn. A normal “to hit” roll must
be made to affect creature) spell. They will use their
57.
58.
59.
spells first, if possible, before engaging in combat with
weapons. In the room are four beds, four small stands,
a table, four chairs, four chests for clothing, and various
books and scrolls of evil nature 
- nothing of value.
However, on the table are copper dishes and vessels
(total weight 300 coins) of exceptional craftsmanship
which are worth 175 gold pieces. (If the party opts
destroy the evil writings, they should receive an 
addi-
tional 600 experience points for the act, unless they are
themselves evil, in which case they should receive
points for keeping and reading these works.) If hard
pressed, these evil clerics will attempt to flee and warn
their master by striking the great bell (58.).
HALL OF UNDEAD WARRIORS: There are four files of the
undead here, two of 10 skeletons each, two of 10 zom-
bies each. The former face south, the latter north.
20 skeletons: AC 6 (due to chain mail rags and shields),
HD I, hp 3 each, #AT  I, D 1-6, Save F I, ML 12, turned as if
they were zombies.
20 zombies: AC 5 (due to chain mail), HD 2, hp 8 each,
#AT  1,  D 1-8, Save F 1,  ML 12, turned as ghouls.
Upon striking of the great iron bell at 58., below, the
skeletons will issue forth from the south door of the
place and march into the temple (58.) to line the south
wall, while the zombies plod out the north exit to line
the north wall of the temple. If intruders enter room 57.,
are in the passage to the temple, or are within the
temple itself, these undead warriors will attack. Proper
garments and amulets will prevent attack unless the
head cleric commands the undead to do so. They
have no treasure.
TEMPLE OF EVIL CHAOS: This huge area has an arched
ceiling some 30’ or more in height. The floor is of
polished black stone which has swirling patterns of red
veins through it. The walls behind the draperies,  and
the ceiling as well, are of dull black rock, while the west
wall is of translucent red stone which is seemingly one
piece, polished to mirror-like smoothness. A great bell
of black iron stands near the entrance point, with a pair
of mallets beside its supports. To the south are several
long benches or pews. There are three stone altars to
the west, the northernmost of pure black, the middle
one of streaked red and black, the last of red with
black flecks. At the western end of the temple area is a
dais of black stone, with four lesser chairs on its lower
tier and a great throne above. The chairs are of bone;
the ivory throne is set with gold and adorned with gems
of red and black (10 black stones each worth 100 gold
pieces, 10 red stones each worth 500 gold pieces, and
one large red stone worth 1,000 g.p.). The signs and
sigils*  upon these seats are of pure chaos and evil. The
other walls are covered by draperies of deep purple
with embroidered symbols and evil sayings, done in
scarlet and gold and black thread. As soon as the
party enters the place, black candles in eight great
candelabras on either side of the place will come
alight magically, shooting forth a disgusting red
radiance. Shapeless forms of purple, yellow and green
will dance and sway on the western wall, and if anyone
looks at them for more than a moment, they must save
versus Spells or be mesmerized into chanting a hymn to
chaotic evil. Should three or more voices be so raised,
the iron bell will sound automatically by magic, but
even one such chant will alert the guards of the head
cleric (see below). Zombie guards will enter here in 3 
rounds after entry, even if the party is quiet.
THE CHAMBERS OF THE EVIL PRIEST: Location 59.g is the
anteroom where special visitors are entertained by the
chief cleric. There are lavish furnishings here, although
22

===== PAGE 29 =====
none are of particular value except for a golden
flagon and cups (flagon worth 500 g.p., each of the
nine cups has 100 g.p. value). Three zombies are on
guard here. (AC 2 due to plate mail and shield, HD 2,
hp 13 each, #AT 1,  D 1-8, Save F 1,  ML 12.) They stand un-
moving unless they are summoned by a chant from the
temple area, someone enters their area, or they are
commanded by the evil priest.
Location 59. is the private chamber of the evil priest. He
is 3rd level, wears plate mail + 1, has a shield + 1, and
wears an amulet of protection from good, which adds
a further  +1 to his armor class when attacked by
“good” creatures. (AC 0 or -1 due to magic armor and
amulet, C 3, hp 14, #AT I, D 2-7 (staff) or 1-6 (mace), ML
10). He attacks with a 
snake staff, which is + 1 to hit. On
command the staff will turn into a snake and coil
around the person hit. The person is held helpless for
1d4 turns, or until the cleric recalls the staff. The staff
then crawls back to the cleric on command. He also
has a normal mace hanging from his belt. He has a
gold ring with a black gem (value 1,400 gold pieces)
and a purse with 51 platinum pieces in it. He wears a
black cape and cowl, with red robes beneath. His
spells are:  
cause light wounds (inflicts 2-7 points of
damage) and  cause fear. The priest must touch
someone, strike to hit, for the spells to take affect. He
also has a scroll with three cleric spells on it: 
detect
magic, hold person, silence, 15’ radius.  He has a
potion-of gaseous form which he will use to escape
through the boulder-filled corridor, 51.,  when all else
fails.
60.GUEST CHAMBER: This lower room is for important
guests of the place. It contains a large bed, table,
chairs, etc. There is nothing of value within, although
the tapestries adorning the walls (things picturing evil
cruelties and obscene rites) appear expensive. Be-
neath a velvet cloth on the table is a polished mirror.
His room is furnished lavishly, with a red carpet, furni-
ture of black wood with velvet upholstery of scarlet,
and a large bed covered with silken covers of black
and red cushions and pillows. A demon idol leers from
the wall to the north, directly over the bed. If anyone
other than the priest touches it it will topple over upon
the person, causing 2-12 points of damage. It has
Iwo gem eyes (100 g.p. value each). The evil priest will
dart behind a screen in the southeast corner, enter a
wardrobe there, slip through a secret door in its back,
and then down a short passage and out into the
corridor through another secret door, should his life be
in danger. When the secret door in the back of the
wardrobe is opened by the party, 500 gold pieces and
50 gems of 10 gold piece value each will spill from the
wardrobe into the room to hopefully cause pursuers to
stop for the loot. The priest will meanwhile either try 
to
rally his forces, or else escape (assuming that most of
his fellows have been eliminated already).
61. TORTURE CHAMBER: There are various implements of
torture here, both large and small  - a rack, iron
maiden, tongs, pincers, whips, etc. Comfortable chairs
are scattered along the walls, evidently so placed to
allow visitors an enjoyable view of the proceedings.
The 
torturer lives in the forepart of the place, and he
will attack unauthorized persons who enter. He is a third
level fighter with chain mail under his black leather
garments. His weapon is a huge battle axe. Torturer: AC
5, F 3, hp 19, #AT I, D 3-8 (1d6+2  due to Strength), ML 8.
Hidden in his mattress are 135 gold pieces and a
bracelet worth 700 gold pieces.
62. THE CRYPT: The door to this room is bolted shut. This
long hall is of roughly hewn stone, with a low ceiling. In
it are many coffins and large sarcophagi with the re-
mains of servants of the Temple of Chaos. The sixth tomb
opened will contain a wight: (AC 5, HD 3*,  hp 13, #AT  I,
D drain one level, MV (30’), Save F 2, ML 12). There is no
treasure buried with any of the remains, but there is a
secret compartment in the wight’s tomb; this contains a
sword +2.  a scroll of protection from undead, a helm
of alianment change, and a silver dagger worth 800
gold pieces because of the gems set into its pommel*.
63.
64.
STORAGE CHAMBER: There are many piles of boxes,
crates, barrels, sacks, and so forth here - the supplies
of the temple are kept here. There is nothing of value,
and if the party stays within the place for longer than 3
rounds, a gelatinous cube will move down the corridor
into the place and block it. (AC 8, HD 4*,  hp 22, #AT  I, D
2-8 plus paralyzation, MV (20’), Save F 2, ML 12.) Inside
the creature are d12 each of copper, silver, electrum,
gold, and platinum pieces, as well as several bones -
evidently parts of a victim not yet wholly digested. (One
of the “bones” is actually a wand of enemy detection
with 9 charges left. If it is not gotten out of the monster
within 1 turn, it will be ruined by digestive juices.) The
secret door in the room leads to the 
gnoll  chieftain’s
cave (50.,  above).
CELL: The door is of iron, locked and barred, but a
window is set in the door. This is the place where
prisoners are kept until tortured to death or sacrificed
in the area above. There are several skeletons still
chained to the wall, and one scantily clad female 
- a
fair maiden obviously in need of rescuing! As she is
partly around a corner, at first only her shapely legs
and body up to the shoulders can be seen. Those who
enter and approach closer are in for a rude shock! This
is actually a 
medusa recently taken by the evil priest’s
zombie guards. (AC 8, HD 4**,  hp 20, #AT 1, D l-6 plus
poison, MV (30’), Save F 4, ML 8.) An opponent hit by the
medusa’s attack has been bitten by the asp-hair and
must save vs. Poison or die. Persons looking at the crea-
ture 
- including those fighting her from the front -
must save versus being Turned to Stone by the medusa.
Not being above such things, the cleric had plans for
removing its snakes, blinding it, and then eventually
sacrificing it at a special rite to a demon. The medusa
will spare one or two of the adventurers from her gaze,
promising them she has magic which will turn their
companions back to flesh again, if they will free her
from her chains. She does, in fact, have a special
elixir*, a potion of 
stone to flesh in a small vial, enough
liquid to turn six persons, who have been turned to
stone, back to normal, but she does not intend to give it
away. If freed she will attempt to “stone” her rescuers.
CREDITS:
Designed and written by: Gary Gygax
Revised by: Dave Cook, Harold Johnson, Jon  
Pickens,
Michael Price, Evan Robinson, Lawrence Schick,
Stephen D. Sullivan
Editing: Mike Carr, David Cook, Harold Johnson, Jeff R.
Leason,  Frank Mentzer, Tom Moldvay, Lawrence Schick,
Edward G. Sollers,  Stephen D. Sullivan, Jean Wells
Art: David S. LaForce,  Erol Otus,  Jim Roslof
23

===== PAGE 30 =====
NON-PLAYER CHARACTERS  (NPCs)
Whenever the players encounter a person, it is helpful to
have the characteristics of that person at ready. Before
play, roll the Strength, Intelligence, etc. for each NPC.
Make the adjustments as permitted in the D&D BASIC SET,
select a personality, and equip the character (if details are
not already given).
The tables below will help get you started. You may select
from the list of personalities or roll 
(d20)  at random, giving
one or two types to each NPC. Use common sense - a
character can’t be rude and courteous, for example. Feel
free to add to this list; it gives just a few examples for you to
begin with.
PERSONALITIES
I. Brave II. Kind
2. Careless 12. Lazy
3. Cautious 13. Modest
4. Cheerful 14. Nosy
5. Courteous 15. Prankish
6. Dishonest 16. Rude
7. Forgiving 17. Suspicious
8. Friendly 18. Talkative
9. Helpful 19. Trusting
10. Honest 20. Wasteful
For your convenience, you may key the characteristics
listed below to the persons mentioned in the module. For
instance, a note after the Taverner 
"c#4” would indicate
that when the players meet him, the DM is to use the char-
acteristics of 
#4  (below) to represent him. Remember to
make as many listings as you need! The class designations
(Ftr, etc.) do not apply to normal men, of course, and may
be ignored when used to represent normal men.
HUMANS
Class
1. Ftr
2. Ftr
3. Ftr
4. Ftr
5. Ftr
6. Ftr
7. Ftr
8. Thf
9. Thf
10. Thf
II. Cl
12. Cl
13. Cl
14. M-U
Str Int Wis
14 13 7
16 10 9
17 8 13
15 8 II
18 10 7
14 8 10
13 10 6
II 12 8
14 6 II
8 9 11
II 10 14
13 7 15
7 II 17
10 17 12
Dex Con Cha
II 12 14
9 II 15
10 15 12
14 16 6
II 13 9
13 17 II
10 14 17
14 II 7
16 12 10
17 8 16
8 13 9
11 10 10
9 16 8
6 9 II
Personality
Cheerful,
honest
Talkative,
careless
Brave,
forgiving
Honest,
wasteful
Kind,
trusting
Helpful,
forgiving
Kind,
dishonest
Prankish,
rude
Nosy,
suspicious
Modest,
careless
Lazy,
trusting
Friendly,
wasteful
Courteous,
helpful
Cautious,
modest
DEMI-HUMANS
Class Str Int Wis
15. Elf 16 14 7
16. Elf 14 15 10
Dex Con Cha
9 13 10
17 14 5
Personality
Suspicious,
dishonest
Cautious,
rude
17. Hflg
18. Hflg
17 12 8 14 10 9 Courteous,
nosy
15 10 II II II 7 Prankish,
friendly
19. Dwarf 18 8 9 12 9 13
Brave,
talkative
20. Dwarf 16 9 15 8 17 11 Cheerful,
lazy
DESIGNING FLOOR PLANS
Once you have become familiar with the KEEP - who its res-
idents are, where the main buildings are located, and so
forth - it will be helpful to have details about the layout
and contents of certain places. Players can easily ‘see’ an
area they are visiting if you have prepared a floor plan. The
Guild House 
(#16)  will be used as an example of this pro-
cedure.
On the map of the KEEP, the Guild House is shown to be an
‘L’ shape about 40’ long. Draw a large version of it on a
piece of graph paper (the kind with 
1/4"  squares usually
works best). Leave room for a key (noting what symbols are
being used) and index the sheet for easy reference.
The outer walls should have the same dimensions as the
building’s outline. Note the 
scale (what map length repre-
sents what real length) at the bottom of the key. In the
example given, 1/4" equals two feet of ‘real’ length. Since
the walls in a normal building are from six inches to one
foot thick, they may be represented by single lines; an outer
wall should be indicated by thicker lines.
Now look closely at the description of the building in the
text. The lower floor contains the Guild Master’s quarters,
two clerks’ quarters, and an office. Give equal spaces to
the clerks, more to the Guild Master, and the most to the
office (as it represents the main purpose of the building).
The rooms may be in whatever order you like; just re-
member that the outer door shown on the map probably
opens into the office, not into a private bedroom. Most
doors are 3 to 5 feet wide. Be sure to include steps down to
the cellar and up to the rooms on the second floor. Add
some windows to help provide light.
Try and think of what items would be in a sparsely furnished
office in the KEEP (probably chairs, tables, desks, a lockbox
or chest, and a cabinet or two). Consider how necessities
would be provided: heat (fireplaces), water (barrels), and
food (a kitchen in the cellar). The fireplaces should be
located first 
- chimneys go straight up, and must be
placed in the same area on each floor. Most buildings
have one or two chimneys. Remember to heat each room,
if possible! Add other furnishings wherever you wish, includ-
ing any information provided in the text.
The completed office in this example has the Master’s desk
along the west wall under a window, flanked by records
cabinets. The clerks’ desks and collection table are just in-
side a railing, which keep visitors from wandering into the
work area. Waiting chairs are placed for the Guild mem-
bers’ convenience. A secret door in the fireplace leads to
the Master’s bedroom 
- a quick escape route in case of
trouble. The locked chest is for money received in Guild
dues, but is usually empty due to a clever ‘drop’ system. It is
triggered by a lever under the Master’s desk, which dumps
the chest’s contents down a short chute into a cellar stor-
age room! (You may add whatever tricks and traps you
wish.)
Arrange the bedroom furnishings (table, chairs, bed,
armoire, etc.) in a similar manner. On the second floor
(divided into private bedrooms and dormitory, according
24

===== PAGE 31 =====
to the text) build the rooms off of the stairs, hallways, and
fireplaces. It’s easy!
Now you design the cellar, remembering a few key facts:
1. The stairs and chimneys must connect properly to
the first floor.
2. Two servants live in the cellar, but not as richly as the
clerks or the Guild Master.
3. A heavily barred, locked room must be under the of-
fice to receive the Guild fees from the chute.
4. A kitchen must be located by one of the fireplaces.
You won’t have to worry about windows or outside doors -
but you might wish to include a secret entrance to a long-
forgotten dungeon (which, of course, you must design and
stock with monsters and treasure)!
Adding the details to a house, church, or other structure
can take a lot of time, but it’s not as hard as you might think.
Before playing the module, lay out as many buildings of the
KEEP as you can. The most commonly used buildings will be
the TRAVELERS’ INN 
(14.),  the TAVERN (15), the GUILD HOUSE
(16.1, and the CHAPEL (17.). You may add just a few simple
furnishings to each if you wish, leaving the many smaller
details for later. By designing floor plans, you can experi-
ment with many of your own ideas before starting a major
project - like the CAVES OF THE UNKNOWN.
TIPS TO THE PLAYERS
It often helps for beginning players to have advice on how
to play D&D.  Many points are overlooked by novices in
their eagerness to get on with the adventure, The following
points are given to help these players.
Most importantly, players should be organized and co-
operative. Each player should have complete information
on his or her character easily on hand and should supply
the DM with this information quickly and accurately if
asked. As parties will usually involve a variety of alignments
and classes, players should work together to use their abili-
ties effectively. Arguing among players will cause delays,
attract monsters, and often result in the deaths of some or
all of the members.
Cooperation should also be given to the DM. He or she is
the judge of the game and his or her decisions are final. If a
player disagrees, he or she should calmly state why, and
accept whatever the DM decides. Shouting, crying, pout-
ing, or refusing to accept decisions only angers the other
players. The game should be fun for all involved. Not every-
thing will go the way players want it.
Planning is another important part of play. Players should
be well equipped, comparing each member’s list and
balancing the items on each. No character should be over-
burdened nor under-equipped. This may mean sharing the
costs of extra items. Rope, oil, torches, spikes, and other
useful items should always be carried. Plans should be con-
sidered for encountering monsters and casting spells.
Caution is also necessary and is a part of planning. A party
that charges forward without preparation is almost
certainly doomed. Danger should be expected at any
moment and from any direction, possibly even from one’s
own party. Lying and trickery are not unknown. Cautious
play will help avoid many (but not all) tricks and traps and
may save a life. However, too much caution is as danger-
ous as too little. Many instances will require bold and quick
actions on the part of the players, before all is lost.
Above all a player must think. The game is designed to
challenge the minds and imaginations of the players.
25
Those who tackle problems and use their abilities, wits, and
new ideas will succeed more often than fail. The challenge
of thinking is a great deal of the fun of the game.
GLOSSARY
amulet - A charm inscribed with a magic symbol.
armoire - A large trunk or closet where clothes are kept
bailey - The outer wall of a castle, or an area within  such a
wall.
battlement - A parapet with open spaces atop a wall,
used for defense or decoration.
brazier - A pan for holding hot coals, usually on a tripod
Castellan - A governor or warden of a castle or fort
cistern - A reservoir for storing Iiquids,  especially water
contour line - A line connecting points having the same
elevation on a map.
cowl - The hood on a cloak.
decanter - A vessel used to pour or store liquids;  usually
used for wines and other liquids containing  sedi-
ment.
elixir - A sweet liquid, or a cure-all.
fen - Low land which is covered, wholly or partially, by
water; a swamp.
flagon - A large vessel or bottle of metal or porcelain.
usually with a lid.
hilt - The handle of a sword or dagger.
labyrinth - A confusing maze, usually of tunnels under-
ground.
lackey - A servant, usually very low in class
man-at-arms - A soldier of the most common type
melee - Hand-to-hand combat between groups of char-
acters and monsters.
mercenary - A soldier who fights for wages rather than
sworn loyalty.
murder holes - Slits cut into a ceiling so that victims  pass-
ing below may be attacked from above.
NPC - A non-playing character, controlled by the Dun-
geon Master rather than one of the players
pallet - A straw-filled mattress or small, hard bed
parapet - A wall or elevation of earth or stone to protect
soldiers.
pole arm - A large, heavy weapon on a long pole. There
are many types, all of which are considered
equal for D&D BASIC SET combat.
pommel - The knob on the hilt of a sword or dagger
portcullis - An iron grate hung over a gateway and
lowered between grooves to prevent passage.
pot boy - A young servant or slave who works in a tavern or
inn.
retainer - Special NPC followers of player characters, who
travel on adventures for a share of any treasure
found.
sarcophagus - A stone coffin (Plural - sarcophagi.)
scenario - An outline of a possible course of events.
score - 20 items,
scullion - A kitchen helper, usually very low in class
tun - A measure of wine: 252 gallons, or 8 barrels.
vellum - A very strong cream-colored paper.

===== PAGE 32 =====


===== PAGE 33 =====
DRAW YOUR OWN FLOOR PLAN

===== PAGE 34 =====
ADDITIONAL NON-PLAYER CHARACTERS
Use this sheet to list persons in the KEEP or in the CAVES OF CHAOS. Profession could be Fighter, Innkeeper, and so forth.
Special refers to spells, valuables, and other details you may wish to include. Location should be noted by building or
cave number.
       Class/
    Name   Profession   Level   AC   hp   Str   Int   Wis   Dex   Con   Cha   Personality   Special   Place
  1.
  2.
  3.
  4.
  5.
  6.
  7.
  8.
  9.
10.
11.
12
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
28

===== PAGE 35 =====
This item is only one of the many popular playing aids for DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Fantasy Adventure Game
produced by TSR Hobbies, Inc. Other playing aids currently available for use with the D&D® game system include:
Dungeon Module B1 (In Search of the Unknown)
Dungeon Module B2 (The Keep on the Borderlands)
Dungeon Module X1 (The Isle of Dread)
Monster and Treasure Assortment, Set One to Three: Levels One through Nine (makes the job of stocking dungeon
levels easy)
Dungeon Geomorphs (allows the DM to create thousands of different dungeon levels by arraigning them in different
combinations)
D&D Player Character Record Sheets (allows players to record all important information about their characters
in an easy-to-use format)
Other releases of additional items relating to D&D® Adventure Games are planned for the future. TSR Hobbies
publishes a complete line of fantasy and science fiction games and rules which are available from better hobby,
game, and department stores nationwide. If you desire a complete catalog, write to: TSR Hobbies, Inc., POB 756,
Lake Geneva, WI 53147
ISBN 0-935696-47-4
