
===== I3-5 PAGE 2 =====
Original Module Design: Tracy Hickman, Laura Hickman, and
Philip Meyers
Additional Design: Peter Rice and Wm. John Wheeler
Revision: Wm. John Wheeler
Editing: Curtis Smith, Edward Sollers, Marlene Weigel, and Wm.
John Wheeler
Cover: Keith Parkinson
Cartography: Dennis Kauth, Ron Kauth, Dave LaForce, Steve
Sullivan, and Stephanie Tabat
Typography: Betty Elmore
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House Inc.,
and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd.
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors.
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR UK Ltd.
Copyright 1987 TSR Inc. All Rights Reserved.
This adventure is protected under the copyright laws of the United States
of America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material
contained herein is prohibited without the express written permission of
TSR Inc.
First Printing May 1987
Printed in the U.S.A.
Table
of Contents
Foreword
Chapter 1: Background And Storyline.
Chapter 2: Judging Notes For The Referee
Chapter 3: Setting Up The Campaign.
Chapter 4: Bralizzar, Gateway To Raurin
Chapter 5: Across Northknife Pass ...
Chapter 6: Desert Of Desolation
••••
Chapter 7: Sunken City Of Pazar.....
Chapter 8: Tomb Of Amun-Re ......
Chapter 9: Oasis Of The White Palm .
Chapter 10: Temple Of Set ....
Chapter 11: Crypt Of Badr Al-Mosak .
Chapter 12: Lost City Of Phoenix
Chapter 13: Skysea/The Cursed City Of Stone
Chapter 14: Lost Tomb Of Martek ...
3
4
• 10
• 12
• 19
• 22
• 36
. 40
• 62
• 74
80
. 86
• 94
108

===== I3-5 PAGE 3 =====
Foreword
This has been an ambitious project. It is difficult to revise the good work done by
someone else and to add material to it that does not destroy the flavor of the origi-
nal. To do this has been my task.
Tracy Hickman, Laura Hickman, and Philip Meyers provided an excellent set of
adventures in the original Desert Of Desolation Series, I3 through IS. The story that
held these adventures together was of a campaign style, an epic quest against seem-
ingly insuperable odds. To this material, Peter Rice and I have added new designs,
expanding on some of the open ends that were left behind in the original works. We
designed the adventure map, tying together all of the adventure areas, and we cre-
ated the ancient alphabet used on all of the inscriptions. With the help of Jeff Grubb,
Peter and I have expanded the history, storyline, and legends to tie together the
adventures and weave in the new material, creating a viable campaign in the Forgot-
ten Realms. In addition, as editor, I have completely revised the format, rewritten
much of the text, and added significantly to the judging notes.
What has resulted amazes me. The work has a luster and sparkle that I wish every
one of my own designs had. I guess that is what happens when you take a jewel and
polish it. It is enjoyable to read and the playtests of the revised work were a lot of
fun.
Here you have the Desert Of Desolation. You have a wonderful adventure ahead.
I wish I could join you.
Wm. John Wheeler
March 31, 1987

===== I3-5 PAGE 4 =====
Chapter 1: Background and Storyline
The Plot Line
Play will begin with an encounter, wherein the
players will probably use a teleportation
device they discover to escape from
a
seemingly-impossible situation. They also will
discover a waylaid message to Elminster the
Sage detailing the discovery of prophesies
requiring immediate attention. The teleporta-
tion amulet that will take them far to the
southwest, depositing them in Bralizzar, a
frontier town nestled in the mountains known
as The Dustwall.
Discovering themselves in the sitting room
of a wizard, actually quite pleased by their
intrusion, they will be shown a map fragment
of The Desert of Desolation, told details of the
prophesy, and be asked to undertake a quest to
forstall the events prophesied. Should they
refuse, other, more physical, means will be
used to insure their cooperation.
The prophesies come from Martek, Grand
Vizier of Raurin, called "The Greatest of
Mages." One thousand years ago, Martek
imprisoned an evil efreet of great power. He
realized that the efreet would eventually
release himself and would gather evil minions
to wreak his vengeance on the land and peo-
ples of the desert. He also foresaw that he
could minimize the damage from the vengeful
efreet if he were somehow able to be brought
back to life at the proper moment. Thus, he set
up a magical quest for a band of heroes whose
ultimate goal would be to break into his Inner
Sanctum and resurrect him at just the proper
moment, about 1000 years after his death.
Fearing that to leave his tomb open would be
to risk its plunder and the foiling of his scheme,
he would have to make the quest a difficult
one, one of many parts, all of which were
needed to be successful. He enchanted five
large gemstones, which he called the Great
Stars, or the Star Gems; all of these would be
necessary to gain entrance to his tomb and res-
urrect him. He scattered these among the
sheiks, pharaohs, and other rulers of the des-
ert. He gave magical instructions about the
way the gems should be treated and placed
clues to their whereabouts in several places,
knowing that the wizards of a later age would
piece together parts of the story.
He engineered the imprisonment of a great
djinn to combat the efreet while the quest for
the stones was undertaken. This would act as a
safety valve in case the quest failed. He placed
lingering enchantment on a revered place, so
that its rulers would always have the key to the
djinn literally in the palms of their hands.
Finally, he devised the greatest scheme of all.
He set one of the star gems to guard the efreet,
knowing that his heroes of the future would
actually release the efreet in their quest. The
efreet would begin to wreak vengeance and
would further expend power combatting the
djinn. Then, when Martek was released, he
would be able to banish the efreet from the
land forever.
The Desert of Desolation abounds in clues
and artifacts from Martek's quest. Several
months before the beginning of play a wizard/
scholar managed to decipher an ancient tome
actually prepared by Martek to reveal key
pieces of his quest at this time. The tome states
that an evil efreet will soon be released on the
land and that a band of heroes is needed to
gather the five magical Star Gems of Martek,
now scattered in the Desert of Desolation.
These stones would allow the heroes to enter
Martek's tomb, where they could release Mar-
tek's fabled Sphere of Power to destroy the
efreet.
Fulfilling the prophesy is the story that will
unfold for the player characters. They will, by
choice or force, go north to Raurin, to the
cursed area called The Desert of Desolation.
Once a fertile land, ruled by benevolent Phar-
aohs, only ruins now remain,
the bleached
bones of great cities awash in shifting sands.
The heroes-to-be will travel to the now-
sunken ruins of Pazar, where they will find one
of the Star Gems. Actually, they will also
release the efreet, if all goes as Martek intend-
ed, and this will seem to fulfill the events he
foretold. They will travel to ruined Terbakar
and meet the spectre of Amun-Re, in whose
theft-proof tomb they will find a second Star
Gem and incidentally break a curse that will
restore water to the desert.
Making friends (and enemies) in the Oasis of
the White Palm will lead the adventurers to the
Temple of Set buried beneath the oasis. There,
they will find a third Star Gem. An excursion
to the crypt of Badr Al-Mosak will bring them
face- to-face with the evil minions already
gathered by the efreeti they freed, as well as
another Star Gem.
A journey to the ruined city of Phoenix will
adventurers to release the djinn
imprisoned there. He will fulfill his part of
Martek's plan and begin to combat the efreet,
who, unfortunately, awaits him. Efreet and
djinn lock in a titanic struggle against one
another, unleashing firewinds and icestorms
that rain down upon the desert peoples.
Finally, the quest will take the heroes across
the glass of Skysea, created by the original bat-
tle between Martek and the efreet. There, in
the ruined city of Medinat Muskawoon, they
will search for the final Star Gem, the magical
compass that will guide the heroes to Martek's
tomb. To fulfill the prophesy and save the land
from total destruction, all that remains is to
gain entrance to the hidden Citadel of Martek.
Inside, they will discover that they are not
alone, for others have managed to discover the
entrance to the Citadel. Without at least three
Star Gems, however, these people were fated
to remain imprisoned in the entry garden of the
Citadel. Gaining entrance to the Grand Hall of
the Crystal Prism, the heroes will find that
there are three tests at which they must succeed
before they can gain the Inner Sanctum, the
resting place for Martek and his Sphere of
Power. In order to activate the key to the Inner
Sanctum, they will have to best three unusual
adventure areas — the Black Abyss, the Mobi-
us Tower, and the Crypt of Al-Alisk.
Once in the Inner Sanctum of Martek, the
adventurers will have to use the Star Gems to
release Martek's Sphere of Power. Though
thought to be a magical artifact, the Sphere is
actually Martek himself. The player characters
must figure out how to bring him back to life
so that he can use his power to destroy the
efreeti. Once he has been brought back to life,
Martek will reward the heroes and return them
to wherever in the land they desire to be,
allowing them to witness the fulfilling of his
prophesy as he banishes the efreet.
General
Background
Information
There is background information presented at
the start of each chapter. The information in
these Background sections is specific to the
area and play described in the chapter. The
background information presented here is
more general. It ranges from a condensed his-
tory of the area to information about Martek
and his quest.
Use this information when the PCs are deal-
ing with a knowledgeable NPC, such as the
wizard Aman Al-Raqib. Remember, when giv-
ing out information, do not be too specific if it
will affect play.
Travel Through The Desert Of
Desolation
At one time, when the River Athis flowed,
trade between the cities of the north in
Mulhorand and Semphar and those in Durpar
passed through the great deserts of Raurin by
following that great river. The River Athis
sprang from a magical fountain in Terbakar,
the rich and verdant capital of the Bakar, a a
jewel in the desert. Its pharaohs had ruled there
for time out of mind, and though its libraries
were noted in some circles, it was the Waters of
Athis revered by the dwellers of the desert. The
River Athis that sprang from Terbakar gave
life to a long and sinuous corridor from there
generally northward, passing by the garden
city of Pazar, the sacred White Palm, the city
of Carthag now called Phoenix, and beyond to
the lands where the legendary Martek had his
When the Pharaoh Amun-Re called down a
curse on his people and the River Athis ceased

===== I3-5 PAGE 5 =====
to flow in response, the fertile river valley
dried up. So, too, did the teeming life made
possible by the flow dry up. With life in the
desert nearly impossible, the trade routes that
followed the River Athis became drifted over
with sand. With the curse came universal dry-
ness, and the area was renamed the Desert of
Desolation to reflect that. The cities of Durpar
and the southern trade roads were cut off from
Mulhorand and Semphar.
But while the Desert was dead, the rest of the
world was not, and a barrier of sand could not
last forever. If it was possible to cross the des-
ert along the banks of the River Athis while
life-giving water flowed there, it was still pos-
sible once those waters were lost to Amun-Re's
curse. The rich and populous lands to the
north virtually demanded trade begin once
again. That trade could have gone to sea
through the Golden Water and around to the
Alambar Sea, but the voyage was long and
dangerous. Better, reasoned the merchants, to
find a way across the Desert of Desolation, the
rest of Raurin, and Plains of Purple Dust to the
wealthy and ancient cities of Gheldaneth,
Unthalas, Jhandyl, Phannaskul, and Phelzol.
At last, the pressure from the merchants was
too great, and a caravan, one modest in size,
well guarded, and supplied, left the town of
Bralizzar, once the staging point of the trade
north. It crossed the intervening sand guided
by a few Raurindi who only knew of the area,
long desolate, from stories at the knees of their
elders. The trek to the dry valley of the Athis
was killing, and tale these intrepid traders
brought back was one of desolation and dan-
ger. But it could be done, and the pressure to
trade had an outlet. Thus entered the Sand-
voyagers Guild.
The Raurindi / Durpari Conflict
The Durpari saw the re-establishment of trade
across the desert as a way to return to their her-
itage. Traders to the core, they had plied their
wares in the Athis river valley before the curse
had made it barren. They saw caravan trade
between the remaining oases as the manner in
They were driven by two motives beyond
those of trade alone: as members of the one
god Anu, they were sworn to the destruction
of the idols of the older gods of the Raurindi,
and they were secretly ashamed that they had
deserted the land to the Raurindi. Thus they
came back to the desert with the glint of gold in
their eyes, and a hatred of the Raurindi and all
they stood for in their hearts.
While the Raurindi had protected the tem-
ples of the old gods, the Durparis were bent on
their destruction. As the Durpari swept into
Bralizzar, the Dustwall Mountains, and the
Desert of Desolation, they pushed the Raurin-
di before them... or destroyed them.
The Durpari
The Durpari are a civilized people who are
traders to the core. Because of this, they have
developed great cunning in business, and their
commitment to the truth is less than total.
They prefer to talk, rather than fight, though
they have some of the most fearsome troops in
the southern lands, their dreaded Lancers and
It was the Durpari who established trade
through the deserts of the south, and it was the
Durpari who re-established it when trade
became nearly impossible following the curse
of Amun-Re. The Durpari are the only group
of people who venture through the Desert of
Desolation with regularity. Although they
often go on trading missions, they prefer to
remain at home, usually at an oasis fortress or
other trade center.
call Anu. Their religion deems as heretical the
worship of many gods, and they are duty-
bound to destroy idols and temples dedicated
to the "old" religions.
The Durpari Airlancers fly on pegasi they
breed for the purpose. They can communicate
with their beasts in very complex ways.
The Raurindi And The Dervishes
As a people, the Raurindi became nearly
extinct when their lands turned to desert mil-
lennia ago. Those who were left became desert
nomads, a dark people, rough from the desert
winds and sands. Hot-tempered and emotion-
al, they do not generally care for outsiders.
They are somber, pessimistic, and almost
always bad-mannered, but they are scrupu-
lously honest and completely fearless. To their
friends, they are generous and forgiving.
except of a personal insult.
Many Raurindi have since been assimilated
into the Durpari, particularly in areas within
and bordering the great deserts. Most of these
have converted to the "True Faith" of the Dur-
pari, who worship the one god Anu. Neverthe-
less, some of the Raurindi cling secretly to the
old ways. Called Dervishes, they are aliens,
outcasts, and even outlaws wherever they go.
In fact, because they feel that their god has
turned away from them in relegating them to
the desert, not only do they worship the old
religions, but they now fanatically protect the
religious freedoms and holy places of all peo-
ples, whatever their practices or beliefs. They
hate robbers of graves and tombs, and protect
such places from "infidels," tending to make
encampments nearby. If they find a holy item
or place has been looted or damaged, they will
mark the vandal/thief for Bloodquest. This
means that they will use their considerable
tracking ability (the same as rangers) to hunt
down and destroy the one so marked. The final
stroke is carried out under the trembling.
vibrating scream of any Dervishes at hand,
5
fighting to the death. This has spawned a des-
ert proverb: "Woe be unto him who puts blood
in the eye of the Dervish."
Star Gems Of Martek
Martek gave five Star Gems to the rulers of the
lands crossed by the River Athis, one to each.
The Star of Mo-Pelar, a fist-sized opal, he gave
to the Pharaoh Amun-Re, who locked it in his
theft-proof tomb. The Star of Aga-Pelar, a
huge sapphire of midnight black with a star of
purest white, he gave to the Lord of Pazar in
return for keeping Khalitharius prisoner. The
Star of Shah-Pelar, a very large faceted ruby,
he gave to a pharaoh whose name is lost in
antiquity; the gem was stolen by the evil Badr
Al-Mosak, and is said to be buried with him.
The Star of Khan-Pelar, an enormous clear
crystal, is thought to be buried near the White
Palm. The Star of Melos-Pelar, a facetted amy-
thest ball, was taken into the Cursed City of
Stone, never to be seen again. All five are
needed to locate Martek's Tomb.
The Sphere Of Power
Legend says that Martek's Sphere of Power
was buried with him. Using that wondrous
tool, Martek bested the evil Efreet Pasha Kha-
litharius in a magical battle that has not been
seen since. The very desert sands flowed like
water before the freet was imprisoned
The truth is that Martek's knowledge and
wisdom are his "sphere of power." They indeed
lie with him in his Citadel, and when he is
brought back to life, he will use them to banish
the evil efreet Khalitharius forever.

===== I3-5 PAGE 6 =====
Chapter 2: Judging Notes For The Referee
This adventure is designed for a party of six to
eight player characters of 5th to 7th levels. A
balance of character classes is suggested, for a
wide variety of problems will confront the
players. Each character class will certainly
have its moments to shine.
About The
Presentation
This is a campaign-style product. It is an epic
adventure featuring the player characters as
heroes. The story line is meant to be usable in
any campaign, beginning at any location. We
feel that it is at its best when played that way.
Nevertheless, the adventure has several dis-
tinct parts, each usable as a scenario on its
own. For this reason, the adventure is present-
ed in sections, each one a chapter in this book-
let. If you choose to do so, you may lift a
section from the adventure and play it sepa-
rately, though some work would be necessary
to fit it into ongoing play.
Furthermore, there are three places where
beginning play makes sense. These places rep-
resent the starting points for the three I Series
modules as they were originally published.
One place is at the tomb of Amun-Re, ignoring
the preparatory campaign material. A second
is in the Oasis of the White Palm, assuming
that the events at the pyramid of Amun-Re are
things of the recent past. A third is at the Pil-
lars of Martek, wherein all of the quest has
been completed and the heroes only need to
gain entrance to the tomb.
The information needed to run this adven-
ture is presented in the same way for each sec-
tion and part of a section. The various types of
information are given below.
Boxed Text
This is material meant to be read to the players
unless specific circumstances in your game pre-
vent their knowing the information given. In
general, boxed text will give what the adven-
turers could see, hear, or otherwise perceive
before actually beginning to interact with the
adventure area. Indoor and nighttime descrip-
tions were written assuming that the adventur-
ers are using a torch or lantern to see by, thus
illuminating a 30-foot radius area.
For example, boxed text for a room would
give a brief description of the room's contents
as seen from the doorway; this would include a
description of the room's inhabitants. Another
example of boxed text would be introductory
material that would set the stage for subse-
quent play.
NPC and Monster Statistics
The inhabitants of an encounter area will be
summarized within the DM text for the area.
The statistics for these inhabitants are given in
paragraphs with all lines but the first indented
from the left-hand side. The stats are presented
in the same order in all cases, one after another
and separated by semicolons. This order is
given below, with the abbreviations used
explained. Spells and special equipment are
given below the stats.
DM Judging Text
This text is printed in standard paragraph for-
mat. The first paragraphs of an encounter
area's judging text most often will provide gen-
eral information about the area itself that is not
readily apparent to the player characters.
The next paragraphs will explain the area's
peculiarities. They could detail the reaction of
the area's inhabitants to various party behav-
iors. Traps or tricks will be described in these
paragraphs, and treasure will detailed in the
same way.
Inscriptions and Scrolls
In many of this adventure's encounter areas,
there are phrases, sentences or verses written
in "an ancient alphabet." These inscriptions
and scrolls give the players hints about expect-
ed actions or solutions to puzzles. The writings
are translated in text indented within the DM
Judging Text. The original inscriptions are pro-
vided on the reverse of the DM's fold-up map.
Known Information And Rumors
Many times, an NPC will know information
that will be valuable to the player characters.
This information is given in the DM judging
text as separate paragraphs indented on both
sides.
Specific References
Whenever the judging text makes reference to
other chapters or parts of this book, italics are
used.
Inscriptions and Maps
A large, colored map sheet accompanies this
book. On the front are four maps, three for
players and one for the DM. It has several dot-
ted lines that indicate where cuts should be
made. Accompanying the colored mapsheet is
a 16-page booklet with the maps from the
adventure; these are for the DM.
Desert of Desolation Player Maps
In the text are indicated where the three player
maps are to be given to players. If things go
in Bralizzar. One of these is of the south end of
the Desert of Desolation, showing the location
of the Oasis of the White Palm, Pazar, Terba-
kar, and the Gates of Sule. The other is a map
of the pyramid and temple at Terbakar.
Then, if things go well again, the third play-
er map will be given to the players in the Tem-
ple of Set. It shows the north end of the Desert
of Desolation, including the city of Medinat
Muskawoon and the Oracle Stones and Pillars
of Martek. The central section of this old map,
which purportedly was made by Martek, is
Desert of Desolation DM Map
The long DM map of the desert (Map 6-1) is in
the same scale as the two player maps. Thus,
the player maps can be laid over the top of the
DM map and they will fit. In a similar way, if
you need to, you can lay a sheet of tracing
paper over the top of the DM map and then
transfer information to the player maps.
Furthermore, the diagram of the Palm Sign
on the hand of the Princess Shadalah is also in
scale with the DM and player maps, so the dia-
gram can be traced and laid on top of the play-
er map to show the exact position of Phoenix.
This is important, because the location of
Phoenix is not known to any NPCs, and it
appears on no map the players or NPCs have
Inscriptions
On the back of the DM map of the desert are
listed all of the ancient inscriptions from the
adventure, except for the Tome of Martek. You
should photocopy these inscriptions and then
cut them out to give to players when the
inscription is found.
General Notes
Ability Checks
Occasionally, the DM judging text calls for
dexterity, constitution, or charisma checks.
When this occurs, have the affected player or
players roll 1d20. If the roll is less than or equal
to the statistic named, the check will be suc-
cessful. Otherwise, the check was a failure.
The effects of success and failure are explained
in each case.
Cumulative Chances
At times, the DM judging text gives a "cumula-
tive chance" that something
occurs.
This
means that each time a roll is made, the chance
becomes greater. For example: As long as a
character sits under a palm tree, there is a 5%
cumulative chance per turn that a coconut will
fall on his head. Thus, there is a 5% chance of a
coconut falling the first turn, a 10% chance the
second turn, a 15% chance the third turn, and
so on.
Magical Traps
Some areas within the tombs and crypts con-
tain complex magical spells and traps. To make
the game flow more smoothly, you should pay
special attention to these areas before playing
those sections.

===== I3-5 PAGE 7 =====
Duplicated Encounter Areas
Certain encounter areas, both in the wilder-
ness and in the tombs and crypts, are dupli-
cates of other areas. Areas that are exactly
alike usually have the same Map Number.
There is only one text description to use for
each of these areas.
Judging Mounted
Travel
You will need to referee desert travel for the
first 10 days of the adventure, and then at oth-
er times as the party travels between adventure
areas. To do this, you will have to take into
account the type of mount being used, the load
carried, the amount of water being consumed,
and the terrain being crossed. The consump-
tion of water and the effects of dehydration are
important enough topics that they have their
own major section.
Types of Mounts Available
It will be assumed here that the player charac-
ters are mounted, either on double-humped
(bactrian) camels, or on Durpari horses, a sort
medium warhorse without the training. These
mounts are available for purchase in Bralizzar,
or they will be given to the party by the sol-
diers, should that happenstance occur.
Camel, bactrian: AC 7; MV 21"; HD 3; hp
3d8; #AT 1; D d4; AL N; SA spits.
Camels attack by biting and spitting. They
are ill-tempered, and thus there is a 50%
chance that they will spit at anyone trying
to mount them. If the attack succeeds, there
is a 25% chance that the rider will be blind-
ed for d3 rounds. Once mounted, the camel
will continue on without difficulty.
Movement rate is affected by encum-
brance, as shown in the section on Encum-
brance, Movement, and Mounts. A camel
that has remained in one place for an hour
is likely to lie down; the chance of this is
20% cumulative. A camel will refuse to rise
40% of the time, this chance diminishing by
5% per turn of coaxing.
Though it requires 1 ration of plants and 2
rations of water per day, a camel can travel
without food or water for 1 week with no
effect. It may travel a second week without
food or water, but its carrying capacity will
be halved. After 2 weeks without food or
water, the camel must be fed and watered
or its value as a mount deteriorates rapidly.
The table below gives the reaction of a cam-
el to disturbances.
Horse, Durpari: AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp
2d8+2; #AT 3; D d6/d6/d3; AL N.
ac, Moment and Mone AN
carrying more than its normal load must be
rested for at least 1 turn every 6 turns; to
have the full benefit of this rest, the load
must be completely removed and the horse
must be fed ½ ration and given ½ ration of
water. There is a 1% chance per 8 hours of
travel through rugged or very rugged ter-
rain that the horse will pull up lame.
A horse needs 4 rations of plants or grain
and 4 rations of water per day. It may travel
2 days without food or water, or 3 days on
reduced rations, but then it will be fatigued.
Horses will react to outside stimulus as
given in the table. Use the result for Other
to represent reaction to sudden movement.
Reaction of Mounts
The mounts used by the player characters in
this adventure will react to outside stimulus
according to the following table, using the
guidelines given on pages 92 and 93 of the Wil-
derness Survival Guide. The first number rep-
resents chance of detection on d12, the second,
the chance of becoming agitated, and the third,
the chance of panic.
Normal terrain would be the Sandvoyagers
Track or the dry riverbed of the River Athis.
Rugged terrain would be the open desert, the
blasted hills that border the desert, Northknife
Pass, and the shifting sands. Very rugged ter-
rain would be the high blasted hills. These are
discussed further in the section Judging Large-
Scale Movement.
A mount can carry its load and move normally
for half a day (8 hours), with occasional rest eve-
ry hour. It may be pushed beyond this limit, trav-
elling continuously for half its current MV in
hours, to a limit of 12 hours total,
without
adverse effects. Any further movement likely will
fatigue the animal. For example, a Durpari horse
loaded with 4000 gp can move for 8 hours at 18";
if pushed, it can travel another 4 hours (total 12
hours) at 18" with no ill effects. A bactrian camel
loaded with 6000 gp can move for 8 hours at 6";
it can be pushed for another 3 hours (6 divided by
2) at 6". If a mount is pushed beyond its limit,
there is a cumulative chance per hour that it will
become fatigued. This is discussed in the subsec-
tion below.
Mount
Camel
Draft Horse
Fire
6/ 9/11
5/11/12
Table 1: Reaction of Mounts
Weather
Noise
6/10/12
6/11/12
8/10/12
4/10/12
Odor
4/10/12
7/10/12
Other
6/10/12
6/10/12
Encumbrance, Terrain, and Mounts
The normal and maximum loads for camels and horses are shown in the table below:
Beast Type
Camel, bactrian
Loads For Beasts of Burden
Normal Load (gp)
4000
Maximum Load (gp)
6000
Horse, Durpari
The amount of load determines how fast the mount can travel. The less the load, the faster the tra-
vel for any terrain type. This is shown by the table below.
Load and Terrain Effects on MV
Beast Type
Maximum Load (gP)
MV Depending On Terrain
Normal
Rugged
Very Rugged
Camel, bactrian
Horse, Durpari
None
4000
4500
5000
5500
6000
None
4000
4500
5000
5500
6000
6500
18 + 1d4
8 + 1d4
4
18
9
3
15
8
12
8
9
7
6
6
18 + 1d4
8+1d4
18
9
0
7
6
16
8
14
8
12
7
10
8
4
4
3
7

===== I3-5 PAGE 8 =====
Fatigue For Mounts
An animal can become fatigued if not given its
ration of food and water or if pushed beyond
its endurance limits.
Fatigue from Deprivation
If a Durpari horse is given no food or water for
more than 2 days, or given reduced rations for
more than 3 days, it will become fatigued. If a
camel is given no food or water for more than 2
weeks it will become useless as a mount or
beast of burden. When fatigued by depriva-
tion, the mount must be fed and watered, and
it must be allowed to rest 8 full hours, or it will
remain fatigued.
Fatigue from Overexertion
Furthermore, there is a cumulative chance per
hour that an animal will become fatigued if
pushed beyond its limits. This chance depends
on the terrain, as shown in the table below:
Terrain Effects on Fatigue
Terrain
Fatigue Chance
Northknife Pass
50% per hour
Sandvoyagers Track
25% per hour
Open Desert
35% per hour
Blasted Hills
35% per hour
Shifting Sands
50% per hour
Sinkholes
75% per hour
River Athis Riverbed
30% per hour
When fatigued by overexertion, an animal
must be rested for 12 hours plus 2 hours for
every hour it was pushed beyond its limits.
Fatigue Effects on Mounts
Movement for a fatigued animal is at half its
MV for the terrain and encumbrance. It may
move at its normal pace 1 round per turn, for a
total of 1 turn in 10. It may not move at all if
the full movement rate is less than 3".
In any case,
there is a 20%
cumulative
chance per hour that a fatigued animal forced
to continue to work or move will become
exhausted. When exhausted, the mount will
not move and may collapse (25% chance if
unburdened, 50% chance with normal load,
75% chance with more than normal load).
An exhausted animal likely will die. There is
a base 50% chance this will occur in 1d4 hours.
If this does not occur, there is still a chance that
it will die, based on its hp. For 8 hours, a roll
1d6-3 will indicate the number of hp the animal
will suffer. If it loses all hp, it dies, but if, after
8 hours, it is still alive, it will regain 2 hp per
hour. When at full hp, it is no longer exhaust-
ed, but it is still fatigued.
Judging
Large-Scale
Movement
It takes a human afoot, moving at a scale speed
of 12", one hour to cross one mile of desert on
the Sandvoyagers Track; at this speed, it will
take 5 hours to traverse one desert hex on the
DM map, which has a scale of 1 hex = 5 miles.
All other movements should be adjusted to
that scale. Given that movement rate and a
normal load, an adventurer riding a camel or a
Durpari horse, MV 18", can traverse one hex
in 3-⅓ hours.
Off the Sandvoyagers Track is a different sto-
ry. The only other normal terrain is the dry riv-
erbed of the River Athis. All other open desert
terrain is at least classified as difficult, with
much of it being classified as rugged or very rug-
ged. These classifications will have a great effect
on how fast the PCs can travel, as shown by the
table below. In the table below, the travel times
are given for one hex of the terrains listed. It is
assumed that the mounts are rested and fed and
are not carrying any greater than a normal load.
Adjust these travel times if this is not the case.
Travel Times Per Hex of Terrain
Type
Normal
Terrain
Sandvoyagers Track
Difficult
River Athis Riverbed
Desert Dunes
Low Blasted Hills
Rugged
Northknife Pass
Shifting Sands
Very Rugged High Blasted Hills
Travel
Time
3-13 hr
4 hr
6 hr
6 hr
8 hr
8 hr
20 hr
Judging Water
Consumption and
Dehydration
Part of the play of this adventure involves the
player characters struggling against a wilder-
ness likely to be unfamiliar to them. Though
this struggle will be a daily occurrence, it is
best not to get bogged down in the particulars.
If the player characters have planned well,
they should have no trouble with dehydration;
if they have been sent on their way by the sol-
diers, they will have to use care.
Daily Water Requirement
For the purposes of this adventure, use the rule
of thumb that a ration of water is 1 gallon (50
gp encumbrance) per day while riding (light
activity), and twice that afoot (heavy activity)
during the day. If iron rations are carried
instead of normal rations, add 1 gallon for eve-
ry 4 carried to account for the water not gained
from the food itself.
Camels require 1 gallon per day and horses
require 4 times that amount. If plants are not
carried to feed the mounts, add 1 gallon for
every 4 to the water needed, making up for
that lost from the food.
Careful conservation, and travel at night
will stretch 7-days' water ration to 10 days.
Dehydration
If the player characters or their mounts get less
than their minimum ration of water per day,
they eventually will become fatigued from
dehydration. A player character can go with-
out water for 2 days in the Desert of Desola-
tion before adverse effects creep in. As
indicated elsewhere, a camel may go without
food or water for one week without penalty,
and a second week at half carrying capacity. A
horse, on the other hand, can only go 2 days
without food or water, or 3 at reduced rations.
The rules for judging the effects of reduced
water consumption may be found in the Wil-
derness Survival Guide, pages 50-53, 88-89.
The effects on combat and other strength-
related activities are given there.
Finding Water
Two tries at locating water may be made in
each 24-hour period. Unless a character has
proficiency in Desert Survival, the chances of
finding water are not great; such proficiency
doubles the chances given below.
Because of the curse laid on Amun-Re, there
is no chance of finding water in the Desert of
Desolation between The Dustwall and Terba-
kar. North of the pyramid to the Oasis of the
White Palm, there is a 10% chance of finding
water within 2d6 + 3 feet of the surface at the
foot of a dune or in the rocky hills. From the
Oasis of the White Palm north to Skysea, there
is a 20% chance to find water at these same
locations. There is no chance of finding water
in the sinkhole areas.
Except for the occasional oases, there are no
plants in this part of the desert.
Judging Sighting
Distance
The Pyramid Tomb of Amun-Re may be seen
from the pass through The Dustwall in the ear-
ly morning, but not after the sun's heat has a
chance to beat down on the desert. From the
top of a dune or a rocky hill, the pyramid can
be seen from 10 miles (2 hexes). The obelisks
(tall stone monuments) can be seen from 5
miles (1 hex). The various ruins can be seen
from 2-3 miles distant, or half a hex. Man-sized
objects are recognizable for what they are at
500 yards. Large sandstorms can be seen for at
least 30 miles (6 hexes), and dust devils (desert
tornadoes) can be seen for 20 miles (4 hexes).

===== I3-5 PAGE 10 =====
Chapter 3: Setting Up the Campaign
In order to set up the campaign, the party must
be transported to the far southeast corner of
the Forgotten Realms, to the land of Durpar.
There, in on the northern border of that land,
nestled in The Dustwall, the mountains that
border the Desert of Desolation, is the town of
Bralizzar. In Bralizzar, the PCs may learn all
they can about the mission, which is to gain
the Sphere of Power of Martek, the area's most
eminent archmage, now dead 1000 years.
This chapter provides one method for get-
ting the party to Bralizzar. You can devise oth-
ers, including a trek overland, if you desire.
The advantage of the method presented here is
that the party can leave the area where they
presently adventure, play through the entire
campaign, and be returned to their starting
point without needing to know any details
about the intervening geography.
Expected Play
The party, while on a wilderness adventure,
will be driven into a cave inhabited by a family
of trolls. Finding combat impossible (or at least
unlikely) to be concluded successfully, they
venture deep into the cave. They find a pair of
scrolls and a teleport device that will take them
to Bralizzar, where the campaign will really
begin.
Throughout the play of this encounter,
encourage any role-play that would normally
be expected, such as tethering mounts, secur-
ing gear, gathering firewood, etc., even though
these preparations will not have much to do
with the outcome. This encounter is linear in
nature; the PCs have little or no choice about
what will happen to them (if they want to live),
but this fact must not be thrust down the play-
ers' throats. At all times, make it seem that the
PCs' actions completely determine their fate.
Troll Cave
Encounter Areas
Refer to Map 3-1 when playing this encounter.
The Troll Cave has two chambers separated by
a narrow, twisting passage. The outer chamber
is large and deep, with a mouth that drops
steeply to a flattened place 15 feet below. The
inner chamber is much smaller.
1. Seeking Shelter
The party is moving through a steep pass, pos-
sibly Gnoll Pass or somewhere similar, when
this occurs. Read this description:
The way is rock-strewn and rough this high
in the steep path. As darkness falls, you
notice that a storm of monumental propor-
tions is brewing,
and will strike before
long. Shelter is needed, and soon!
A glance at the pass being climbed con-
firms that it would be very dangerous to
remain here, for any substantial rain would
turn the trail into a tumultuous torrent of
water as it flows over the rocky ground.
Thus, you reason, the only safe place is off
the trail, up into the rocks themselves.
Before long, the party spots a cave above
them. The way up to the cave is difficult, and it
is impossible to bring mounts up to the mouth,
though there is a place above the flood mark
and 15 feet below the cave mouth where
mounts and heavy gear can be left.
It is important that the PCs feel that the storm
has driven them into the cave. It probably is
best if it breaks before they actually reach the
mouth, but after they spot it.
2. The Outer Chamber
The storm begins in earnest just as you
enter the cave. Cold rain is driven by high
winds into the cave mouth for 10 feet, soak-
ing the area. The torrent breaks loose small
rocks and mud above the cave mouth,
50 feet
UP
2
Map 3-1
Troll Cave
10

===== I3-5 PAGE 12 =====
Chapter 4: Bralizzar, Gateway to Raurin
Background
The town of Bralizzar is a caravansarai nestled
in The Dustwall at the southern edge of the
Desert of Desolation. The town began as a
way-station for caravans headed north toward
the busy cities of Pazar, Terbakar, and Phoenix
along the River Athis. It was here that the cara-
vans spent time before attempting Northknife
Pass into the desert plain beyond and the peril-
ous trek through the hills and dunes to Terba-
kar, from whence the River Athis sprang.
During the winter, many caravans would
spend time here until Northknife Pass was
cleared of snow, and it was through Bralizzar
that first caravans from the north would come
in the spring. It was the importance of the
town that allowed it, with no other visible
means of support, to become one of the jewels
of the area.
All this changed with the curse of Amun-Re.
The River Athis dried, the cities nearby were
abandoned, and most of the caravans depart-
ed. A few intrepid adventurers passed through
Bralizzar, headed toward the Desert of Desola-
tion, but they were far between. Finally, all
that was left were the abandoned temples of
forgotten gods, and the Raurindi Dervishes.
The Raurindi, the remnants of the proud cit-
izens of the once-fertile river valley to the
north, came to Bralizzar. Seeing themselves as
the guardians of the past and the hope of the
future, the Raurindi took over care for the tem-
ples. Their religion, which accepted all reli-
gions as sacred, made them duty-bound to
protect those places deemed holy. They settled
in Bralizzar in the deserted homes of the rich
and waited. They waited for centuries.
When the Sandvoyagers Guild reopened the
trade route north, the Durpari merchants were
not far behind. Now the town is their home,
the Raurindi who once lived here either assimi-
lated or pushed back out into the desert again
to live as nomads. The Durpari cared nothing
for the old religions, worshipping only their
god Anu. The temples that once lined the
major streets of Bralizzar fell into disrepair or
were turned, like the Inn of the Golden Palm,
to other uses. The wide streets became crowd-
ed with small shops and hovels except for the
grand boulevard that leads from the still-proud
administration building to the grand temple to
the west. Only the boulevard retained its beau-
ty, lined with the large residences of the
wealthy and powerful and flanked by build-
ings that would make the cities of Zindalank or
Seldazzar proud
Since trade that exists by a thread can toler-
ate no interference, Bralizzar became a town of
absolute law. A Lancer stronghold was cre-
ated. Courts were also established, as well as
inn and hostels for those who would travel into
the desert.
To control the flow of merchandise to and
from the desert and to make it difficult for pil-
laged caravan booty to be transported, guard-
posts stand on the main trails that led to the
Northknife and South Passes. Those entering
the town from the north with a caravan are
asked (forced) to show bona fides from the
merchants of Phannaskul or Gheldaneth that
they are legitimate traders. Those leaving town
toward Northknife Pass are "asked" to show,
in the same manner, a release from the Het-
mann of Bralizzar to prove their right to cross
On the south side of Bralizzar, travelers are
asked their business in town and issued a cop-
per medallion as proof that they have entered
town honestly. This medallion is to be retained
by all visitors to Bralizzar as an affidavit of
their transient status. Citizens of the town,
those who have been before the Hetmann and
have proved their ability to maintain them-
selves, are issued a silver medallion. This
medallion need not be carried at all times, but
it must be able to be produced on one-hour's
Thus Bralizzar, a vigorous town of 500 per-
manent residents and twice that many tran-
sients, flourishes because the Durpari know
that it is the last outpost before the arduous
trek across the Raurin begins. It flourishes
because its administrators know that to allow
the laws to be relaxed for a moment would be
to plunge the desert trade into the abyss of the
past. It flourishes even though it has no sense
In every way, it is the Durpari who re-
established Bralizzar as the gateway to the
Deserts of Raurin. At first a flourishing city,
next a ghost-town, then a desert waystation,
now become a thriving town of modest size,
Bralizzar reflects the Durpari.
Expected Play
Bralizzar is not as detailed as other adventure
areas. Its purpose is to set the tone of the cam-
paign, to provide a beginning point and a place
to provision the party, and to give you a way
to provide your players with some back-
ground information through the game setting.
Play here can be as extensive as you desire, and
you may flesh out the town as much as you
like.
Most of the play here is likely to be role-
play, as the PCs gather information and sup-
plies. If the players are smart, they will exhaust
every resource, keeping their noses clean, until
they know whatever there is to know about
the desert and their mission.
Providing Information To
Players
In supplying specific information from knowl-
edgeable NPCs (such as Aman Al-Raqib, Het-
12
mann Pasha Burak, or Lancer Captain Ashuk
Masani), use the Background sections of the
chapters in this book. Use this chapter to pro-
vide information about Bralizzar itself. Use the
information in Chapter 1: Background and
Storyline to provide information for the NPCs
to give out on desert trade and the Sandvoy-
agers Guild and on the various legends sur-
rounding the mission. For information about
Pazar, Terbakar, the Oasis of the White Palm,
Phoenix, and Medinat Muskawoon (now the
Cursed City of Stone), see the Background sec-
tions in Chapters 7, 8, 9, 12, and 13. When
rumors are the information supplied, use the
General Rumors section of Chapter 2: Judging
Notes for the Dungeon Master to provide
them.
Be cautious in providing hard information.
It is necessary to give the players some infor-
mation to work with, but it is crucial not to
give them too much. In no case will an NPC
know any specific details, and the facts provid-
ed in the Background sections can be altered or
changed to suit the whim of the DM. After all,
much of what is recorded in those sections is
1000 years old, and time has a way of erasing
details.
Player Maps
There are two player maps on the colored map
sheet that should be given out during role-play
in this adventure area. One of these player
maps, Map 6-2, shows the south end of the
Desert of Desolation. It is at the same scale as
the DM map of the desert, and it shows the
pyramid of Amun-Re, Pazar, the Oasis of the
White Palm, the Gates of Sule, and the dry riv-
erbed of the River Athis. This will give the
players their first clues about where in the Des-
ert of Desolation they should begin. Another
of these player maps is a map of the temple and
tomb of Amun-Re.
Unless play goes very badly, and the players
are not at all cooperative, these maps should
be given to the PCs by Aman. Failing that,
they could be given to the PCs by Captain
Murak after he escorts them to Northknife
Pass.
Joining a Sandvoyagers Guild
Caravan
There is a bit of a problem should the PCs
decide the best thing for them would be to join
a Sandvoyagers Caravan. From a gaming
point of view, the best course of play is for the
PCs to go it alone in the desert, with only their
own skills and resources to help them face that
dangerous trek. Unfortunately, with the pres-
ence of the Sandvoyagers Guild, this is likely
to be a very poor second choice for them.
Clearly the way for them to travel is as part of
an official caravan. If it were not for the sub-
stantial amount of gaming opportunity that

===== I3-5 PAGE 20 =====
Northknife Pass
Map 5-1
Elevation 1000'
Impassable terrain
Elevation 0
High peaks)
Snowcapped peaks
Elevation 8000
Foothills
Path of caravans (1)
Stream ford (2) P
Narrow passes (3,
4)
Spring stream (5)
Cave (6) O
Scenic view (7)
The Dustwall (8)

===== I3-5 PAGE 30 =====
point, one to the right and one to the left. The-
se trails disappear behind dunes after setting
generally easterly and westerly directions of
travel. These trails may be spotted by a ranger
at half normal ability, with a bonus of 10% for
skill in the desert. A recent sandstorm will cut
the chance to find the trails in half once more.
There is no doubt, however, that the sign-
post indicates a trail once existed to the east
(toward Pazar) and to the west (to the city of
Terbakar, wherein were built the temple and
pyramid of Amun-Re). The runes written in
the ancient alphabet are reproduced as Inscrip-
tion 6B on the reverse of the DM's fold-up
map; they read as follows:
Here lies the road of the kings to the Gar-
den City of Pazar, whilst there lies the
road to Terbakar, Keeper of the Pyramid.
9. Land of Bakar
This area does not appear any different from the
rest of the Desert of Desolation, but it is haunted
by the ghost of Amun-Re, last Pharoah of Bakar.
For each hour that a party remains in this area,
there is a 5% cumulative chance that they will
encounter the ghost during that or the following
night. When the encounter occurs, read the
boxed description below.
Your skin blistered all day until the hot des-
ert sun sank slowly below the horizon.
Now, the deep blue mists of the night swirl
over the sands of Raurin, the incomparable
Desert of Dust.
As the cool night air drains the heat from
the sand, you and your friends huddle
around your campfire, glancing nervously
about. An aura of eerie menace surrounds
this place.
Gradually, the winds change direction,
bearing a thin streak of white mist toward
you from the west. It swirls and disappears
behind a dune 100 yards away. Moments
later, a solitary figure appears from behind
that same dune, plodding through the cool-
ing desert sand. He appears to be dressed in
a leopard-skin robe and an ornate head-
piece. He does not seem to be aware of your
presence, yet he is heading directly toward
you.
As a soul cursed by the gods, Amun-re cannot
be harmed nor can he give harm to the party.
Thus, he will not react to hostile moves, going
so far as to be unresponsive even if a weapon
passes through him. Likewise, he must not
appear to be threatening, merely mysterious.
Until he speaks and leaves no doubt about who
and what he is, cloak him in as much mystery
as possible, never saying directly that he is a
ghost. Give hints, such as "he leaves no track
in the desert sand" or "he seems to be strangely
insubstantial, perhaps a trick of the moon-
light." Make the players guess at his nature
with no confirmation from you.
The ghost will appear to take no notice of
the party until they are within 15 yards, at
which time he will turn and address the party
directly, reciting his sad story. At this time,
read the following boxed copy.
I am Amun-Re, son of Takosh-Re of the
house of Mo-Pelar That which you see is
but my shadow which has walked these
lands for time uncounted, in search of
mighty men of valor, to plead their aid.
In my time was I Pharoah of this land now
before you. Then, Bakar was a green and
beautiful land, blessed by the gods of Heaven
Westward with the wondrous spring of Athis,
which gave life to our land and nurtured our
crops. Yet did robbers raid the tombs of my
forefathers and take from them tokens of
their passage into the lands of the dead, thus
keeping them from their reward after life. I
swore that, at all costs, I would not fall prey
to their evil deeds.
So it was that I made mighty and terrible
war upon my neighbors, plundering their
lands of wealth for my own passage. I did
enter a contract with a great mage to work
a mighty wonder, and, upon the sweat and
blood of my people, I did build a theft-
proof tomb.
My people turned against me with bitter
hatred. not only robbed our borderlands
but taxed grievously my own people, and
so took from them their wealth. They rose
up in anger, demanding their gold and pre-
cious gems, their lives and freedom.
I cursed them, saying, "By the ruling staff
and the Star Gem of Mo-Pelar, I curse you.
Threaten not my life, or by them and by the
holy name of Osiris, will the stopping of
my heart also stop the Spring of Athis from
her life-giving flow. As the river slows and
dies, so shall your land wither in the wilder-
ness. This do I swear by Osiris holy name
and these implements of my power."
From a sea of upraised fists before me,
rose one with a spear. The shaft sped from
the darkness, and so, too, that night did the
Spring of Athis stop its flow.
In death, my spirit gleefully approached
my pyramid. But Osiris stopped my spirit
from entering that tomb, for, said he, "Your
monument to life was to be the benefit you
brought to the people under your steward-
ship, not this edifice of stone. As you
looked only to your death in life, so shall
you look only to your life in death. I am
bound to fulfill your curse, for you have
called it down with power in my name. But
1 do curse you as well, Amun-Re You shall
not enter this tomb where the implements
are of your voyage to heaven until some
mortal soul does despoil this place, taking
your staff of ruling and the Star Gem of
Mo-Pelar from your theft-proof tomb."
Even have I talked with the wind in hope
of help. Uncounted seasons have passed,
and my Kingdom is not now to be seen in
these desert lands. of it, nothing remains
save for my tomb, which stands now as
then, untouched by time, sands, wind, or
men. Though many have tried to plunder
my wealth, none has succeeded, and I am
forbidden passage to heaven until one suc-
ceeds.
My wealth is thine if thou can but best that
which I have built. Remove both my staff of
ruling and the Star Gem from my tomb. So
then will you gain great wealth, and so then
will you release me. Follow my path to wealth
or woe, to thy destiny or thy doom.
The ghost of Amun-re will appear to the party
every night thereafter that they are within the
realm of Bakar and have not yet entered the
temple and tomb. When the party is within
sight of the pyramid, when he will appear and
slowly raise his arm up to point towards the
ancient tomb.
10. First Glimpse of Pazar
Read this description when the PCs are within
10 miles of Pazar. The statue described can be
seen from the top of a dune.
Waist-deep in the desert sands, a stone
giant stands guard over some aged ruins.
Featureless from this distance, the statue
appears to be clasping a tablet.
When the PCs approach closer, use the materi-
al in Chapter 7: Sunken City of Pazar and the
corresponding inscriptions and maps.
11. First Glimpse of Terbakar
and the Tomb of Amun-Re
From the top of any dune within 150 miles, and
the top of any hill within 300 miles, the pol-
ished stone of the pyramid walls reflects the
sunlight, allowing it to act as a landmark and a
beacon even before its shape may be discerned
Within 50 miles, the 700-foot-tall pyramid
takes shape, and when the party comes within
20 miles, it will be nearly continuously visible.
From a dune-top 5 miles away, the ruins of Ter-
bakar may be seen, along with the temple and
pyramid of Amun-Re. Read the boxed descrip-
tion below.
In the midst of the vast desert sands stands
the last relic of a dead civilization. From the
broken foundations of a once-mighty city,
a great pyramid rises, its polished stone
walls gleaming in the sunlight like the facets
30

===== I3-5 PAGE 45 =====
whereby his spirit might pass into his
ordained statue and live within the
stone we worship here. Such a passage
was always provided for the Kings that
they may live among us once more.
The flames in the offering bowl burn with nei-
ther smoke nor heat, nor is there any apparent
fuel source. Anything that is placed in the bowl
vanishes in a spectacular upsurge of flame, as
the PCs can see when the Assistant Holy laseda
places a cloth-wrapped package in the bowl.
The bowl is a rather spectacular teleporta-
tion device to the Welcome Room (area 1) in
Kordan's Master Maze. If a PC enters the bowl
entirely, do not describe for him anything.
Instead, describe for the remaining players
what has happened by reading the following
boxed text. Because the teleportation device
will split the party, it is advisable not to let any-
one know the fate of the vanished party mem-
As soon as (name the PC here) is com-
pletely inside the offering bowl, the flames
surge up,
blocking his (her) from sight.
When the flames die down immediately
thereafter, the bowl is empty save for the
flames. (Name the PC here) has vanished.
After concluding play in this room with the
rest of the party, take any party members who
were teleported aside and read for them the
descriptions of the experience and their present
location in the Welcome Room (area 1) of Kor-
dan's Master Maze.
The flames have done
them no damage. Continue with a split party
as long as necessary.
5. West Water Storage Vault
The 10-foot wide arched corridor opens
into a vertical circular shaft 30 feet in diam-
eter. The shaft has wet, slime-covered walls
dropping into darkness below and rising 30
feet to a domed ceiling above. The air here
is very humid.
The shaft drops down 120 feet to murky water
30 feet deep. The waters of Athis (see area 6)
fill the bottom of this shaft.
There is an underground
between this area and the East Water Storage
Silo (area 6). This tunnel is 15 feet in diameter
and connects 10 feet from the bottom of the
vault. There is a slow current through this tun-
nel in this direction from the connecting silo.
The water in the vault and the connecting
tunnel is the Waters of Athis, which have heal-
ing properties within the tomb. Once per 24
hours, a person drinking the water while inside
the pyramid will gain back 1d10 damage
points. The pyramid concentrates cosmic
energy to give the water its healing powers; the
water will not have any healing powers outside
of the pyramid.
It is from the bottom of this vault that the
water was teleported out to the now-dry Foun-
tain of Athis, which stands just before the tem-
ple. The water used to be created magically on
the Halls of the Upper Priesthood level. When
Amun-Re's curse took effect,
the water
stopped being created. Now, it is teleported
from this place to The Pharoah's True Way
(Tomb Level area 1), where it begins its rapid
downward journey once again. When the
curse is broken, the waters will flow freely
Should a PC happen onto the area wherein
the water is teleported away continuously, he.
too will be teleported. It is likely that this will
split the party. Continue play in the vault,
making no mention of the fate of the PC, who
will not reappear.
Unless the party follows, run the PC sepa-
rately, describing in very general terms the fol-
lowing tumultuous journey. The PC will be
teleported to the top of the water Pillar of
Athis (Gauntlet Level area 4). As the water
plunges downward, he will fall with it, taking
1d6 damage points immediately. He will be
carried through a duct and spilled out into the
rapids of The Grand Hall of the Pharoahs
(Gauntlet Level area 3); this passage, until he
enters a duct at the rapids' foot, will give
another 1d6 damage points. Eventually, he will
be spewed out from the lion's mouth in the
Dome of Flight (Priesthood Halls Level area 5).
He will take an additional 1d6 damage points
from the 30-foot fall to the pool below, from
which adventuring may begin again. Should
the PC die in the process, his body can eventu-
ally be found floating in this same pool.
6. East Water Storage Silo
The 10-foot-wide corridor opens onto a
vertical shaft 30 feet in diameter. The wet
and slimy walls drop down into darkness
and rise 30 feet to the top of a domed ceil-
ing. The air is very humid here, and the
thunderous sound of cascading water fills
the chamber.
The shaft drops 120 feet into turbulent and
foaming white water 30 feet deep. Fifty feet
below the arched entrance, water gushes from
a 10-foot-diameter opening in the north wall,
falling to the water below. This Sluiceway
(area 7) leads up to Kordan's Master Maze.
There is an underground tunnel connecting
this silo with the West Water Storage Vault
(area 5); this tunnel is 15 feet in diameter and
enters 10 feet above the floor of the silo. The
water here is Water of Athis (see area 5).
45

===== I3-5 PAGE 50 =====
two sides. At an inside curve, his arms will be
bent backward; at an outside curve, his arms
will be somewhat in front of him. Similarly, if 4
PCs walk abreast in the mist and they come to
a corner, the PC at the outside will have to hur-
ry to catch up, whereas the person at the inside
will seem to rush ahead. If the PCs send one
with a rope ahead, they can send rope signals.
They even can use the rope to distinguish total
distance between one clear area and another.
It is clues like these that will help the players
solve the problem of determining where they
are. Be sure to reward good play, stretching a
point a bit if necessary to do so. Wondering
monsters will take their toll when bad play
results.
3. Standard 30-Foot Corridor
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot by 30-
foot section of clear corridor with mists fill-
ing the archways at both ends. Archways
lead out from the center of both side walls
and are also filled with mists.
4. Standard Plank Door 1
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot square
section of clear corridor. The mists fill the
archway to the rear, and a heavy door bars
passage ahead.
5. Six Bags Full
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot by 30-
foot section of clear corridor with mists fill-
ing the archways at both ends. Archways
lead out from the center of both side walls
and are also filled with mists. Six small,
leather sacks lie in the center of the corri-
dor.
The sacks contain 510 gp.
6. Door Hammer
You are in a 10-foot square section of clear
corridor with the mists filling the archway
at one end and a heavy plank door at the
other. A hammer lies by the door.
This is a hammer +1.
7. Silver Ringer
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot by 30-
foot section of clear corridor with mists fill-
ing the archways at both ends. Archways
lead out from the center of both side walls
and are also filled with mists. On the floor
in the center of the area is a ring that
appears to be made of fine silver.
There is a base chance of 20% for PCs to detect
a fresh breeze from the north exit. Following
this breeze will lead to a way to the next level.
The ring is a ring of contrariness; it also con-
fers the ability to fly, as in the 3rd level spell
fly. The ring will not come off until a remove
curse is cast upon the wearer, an event that the
wearer will resist with every power available.
8. Breezeway
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot square
clear intersection of four archways, each
filled with swirling rust-colored mists.
There is a base chance of 40% for PCs to detect
a cool, fresh breeze from the east exit. This
leads to the Well of Questions (area 28), a way
to the next level.
9. Кпоск, Кпоск
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot square
section of clear corridor. Mist fills the arch-
way to the rear, and a heavy plank door
bars the way ahead. On the door, in com-
mon speech is written "Knock First."
The sign is to alert the bandits inside that there
are foolish adventures about to come in.
10. Standard Plank Door 2
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot square
clear intersection of archways. Three arch-
ways are filled with the rust-colored mists,
and the fourth is blocked by a heavy wood-
en door.
11. Drafty Door
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot square
section of clear corridor. Mists fill the arch-
way behind, and a heavy wooden door
bars passage ahead. A fresh, cool breeze
flows out from under the door.
The sounds of tumbling torrents of water will
be heard if listening at the door is successful.
12. A Bad Smell 1
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot by 30-
foot section of clear corridor with mists fill-
ing the archways at both ends. Archways
50
lead out from the center of both walls and
are also filled with mists.
The stench of carrion can be detected from the
south exit 10% of the time.
13. A Bad Smell 2
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot by 30-
foot section of clear corridor with mists fill-
ing the archways at both ends. Archways
lead out from the center of both side walls
and are also filled with mists.
The stench of carrion can be detected from the
north exit 10% of the time.
14. Treasure Sled
The mists part to reveal a 10-foot by 30-
foot section of clear corridor with mists fill-
ing the archways at both ends. Archways
lead out from the center of both side walls
and are also filled with mists. Lying on the
floor in the center is the skeleton of a person
who seems to have died while pulling a
sled. The sled holds three chests, two on the
bottom row with the third on top of them.
There is a base 20% chance for PCs to detect
the stench of carrion from the north exit. The
skeleton is harmless.
When the top chest is opened, it shoots out
drug-tipped darts in an arc ranging from
straight up to directly in front of the chest. All
PCs directly in front of the box must make a
successful dexterity check or be hit by some of
the darts. Anyone hit must save vs. poison or
be paralyzed for 1d20 turns. The chest now
contains only old, used, orc socks and the trap
mechanism. The bottom two chests each con-
tain 500 gp, loose.
15. Carnage
The mists part to reveal a T-shaped intersec-
tion. Strewn all about are bodies in various
states of decay; all died in battle. In the cen-
ter of the area, a body lies on its back, spit-
ted through by a brightly shining sword
that sticks into the stone floor. Each branch
of the intersection is 10 feet long and disap-
pears into the rust-orange mists.
The shining sword is the only usable piece of
equipment to be found among the bodies in the
room. A careful examination of the sword will
reveal the word Enduval inscribed on the blade
near the hilt. Enduval is a cursed berserking
sword. When first used in combat, it forces its
user to attack the nearest person to him, friend
or foe. The bearer must continue attacking

===== I3-5 PAGE 60 =====
3d. Pet Fist
The final flight of steps leads up past the rapid
waters to a semi-circular area 30 feet wide by
20 feet deep. There is a bronze arm with its
hand formed into a fist in the center of the
area. Behind this can be seen a throne.
If the party has not yet met Munafik, he will be
seated in the throne, waiting nearly motionless
until the pet fist is bested before using any of
his personal powers. Unless a party member
specifically attacks him or comes too close,
Munafik will remain placid and motionless
until the pet fist can fight no more.
The pet fist will attack anything that moves
within its 15-foot reach. When it has taken its
full 50 damage points, it will collapse as a huge
heap of mud. Then, Munafik will rise immedi-
ately, eyes blazing and face contorted in a hid-
eous snarl. Levelling one hand at the party, he
will cast a spell. He will behave intelligently in
his attempt to best the party. If necessary, he
will escape to another part of this level to con-
tinue the arcane combat there. Because he has
hidden his heart elsewhere, Munafik cannot be
damaged or killed by spells or blows. Cutting
hits will slice right through him with no effect
and thrusts will impale him but do no damage
for his "heart isn't in it" (see area 8); he has
trapped his soul elsewhere. Spells will affect
him as they would any 10th level MU, except
that damaging attacks have no effect. For
example, a hold person will hold him, but a
magic missile will cause no damage.
Pet Fist: AC 7; MV 3"; HD 10; hp 50; #AT 2; D
1d10/1d10; AL C
Munafik: AC 7; MV 12"; MU 10; hp N/A;
#AT 1; D 1d6; AL LE.
3e. Exit at Last
Behind the throne there is a set of bronze
double doors.
These doors lead to the Pillar of Athis (area 4).
They open easily and quietly.
4. Pillar of Athis
In the center of this 30-foot-wide semi-
circular room, a 10-foot-diameter column
of water thunders down from a circular
opening in the ceiling, passing through a
matching opening in the floor. The room
shakes with the violence of the water flow.
There are 10-foot-wide corridors leading
to the east and west. The common speech
symbol for "7" is engraved in the floor in
front of the opening in the floor.
Anyone verbally asking a question will trigger
a deep, watery voice that will speak from the
pillar and ask three questions. If any of the
questions is answered with a lie, the character
answering will be struck by lightning for 1d8
damage points and the pillar will begin again
with the first question. If a question is
answered truthfully, the column will proceed
to the next question until
all three are
answered. The questions it will ask are 1)
"What is your name?"; 2) "What is your
quest?"; and 3) "On whose hallowed ground
If the answer "Amun-Re" is given to the
third question, the column will instruct: "Put
thy hand in mine" and a white impression of a
hand will appear in the floor in front of the
column. Anyone of good or neutral alignment
who places his hand into this will cause the
water pillar to run backwards, from the floor
to the ceiling. If an evil person tries to put his
hand into the impression, a lightning bolt will
gently knock him to the floor for 1-8 damage
points. When the column is flowing back-
wards, anyone (regardless of alignment) step-
ping into the water during the next five
minutes will be swept upward 30 feet to the
Pharaoh's True Way (True Tomb Level area 1),
with no danger of drowning.
5. Reading Room
An octagonal white marble room 30 feet
across has 10-foot-wide archways in the
east and west walls. An old book lies on a
marble slab in the center of the room.
The book is a Libram of Ineffable Damnation.
Any evil MU who reads this book will advance
to the mid-point of the next highest experience
level. The book takes one week to read. Any
good or neutral person who reads even one
word of the book will drop to the mid-point of
the next lowest level of experience.
6. Waterbed
In the center of this 30-foot-wide octagonal
room fashioned of white marble there is a
10-foot-wide by 15-foot-long pool of
water. A large bed with satin sheets rides in
the middle of the pool on pontoons, tied to
the pool's edges with ropes.
8. Dining Room
This octagonal room 30 feet across appears
empty. Archways in the east and west walls
lead out of the room.
9. Storage Room
The north wall of this octagonal room has
been broken through, with rubble and dirt
piled on the floor. There is a 4-foot-wide by
5-foot-tall rough-hewn tunnel that appears
to twist its way down and to the north. A
10-foot-wide archway is set in the center of
the south wall.
10. Rumpus Room
The north wall of this octagonal room dis-
plays chains and open manacles, the pins
missing.
11. Heart's Lair
At the end of the narrow, low-ceilinged,
twisting tunnel lies a rough cavern, made
more by force than grace from the fitted
stones of the pyramid. Jumbled blocks are
strewn about the floor. The cavern mea-
sures roughly 30 feet north to south and 40
feet east to west. Something can be seen
glittering in a small cave in the northeast
corner. A hugh dark shape stands in front
of the cave in stony silence.
A clay golem is guarding the Treasure and
must be overdome. It will only attack if the
characters approach within 5 feet of it.
Behind the golem in the cove is a glass bell
jar that glints through the dust and soot that
covers it. The jar is sealed to the base and the
glass will break before the base will loosen.
Within the jar (treat the glass as AC4; hp 28) a
beating human heart can be seen. After the jar
is broken; the heart will die.
Munafik's; only the death of the heart will kill
the evil priest of the pyramid.
Clay Golem: AC 7; MV 7"; HD 11; hp 50; #AT
1; D 3d10; AL CE/N.
7. Sitting Room
The floor of this 30-foot-wide octagonal room
is covered with a rug, a nice contrast to the
white marble walls and ceiling. A chair and a
bench stand against the west wall.
60

===== I3-5 PAGE 75 =====
will be vacant, the zombie having returned to
the Carnivorous Cavern (area 3).
Zombie: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 12; #AT 1: D
1d8; AL N.
3. Carnivorous Cavern
Within this small, dark cavern stand sev-
eral figures, swaying from side to side.
Four (three if one zombie was in the Temple
Entry) zombies are standing in this room. They
will not attack unless their room is entered or
the glyph of warding on the Door of Warding
(area 5) goes off.
Zombies: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp
12,10,8,(12); #AT 1; D 1d8; AL N.
4. Followers' Purification
Room
The walls of this room are painted to depict
terrible creatures marching to war. In the
middle of the floor are three wading pools,
three feet long east to west by six inches
deep. The northernmost pool holds a per-
fumed, transparent liquid with a green
tinge. The middle pool contains a deep red
liquid, and the southernmost pool contains
a clear liquid.
The worshippers are required to wade through
these pools as a rite of purification before they
worship their evil deity. There is nothing spe-
cial about any of the liquids.
5. Door of Warding
The cult members will say the passwords as in
Trap/Trick below before passing through the
arched door. All cultists know the passwords
into this part of the complex. Player characters
who follow the cultists will learn the
passwords.
Over the doorway between this room and
the Followers' Purification Room (area 4) are 3
glyphs of warding, one on each wall and one
on the floor. Unless the words "Seti," "Minion,"
and "Nol-anka" are spoken before a character
passes, the glyphs will be discharged. In addi-
tion to giving damage, this will summon the
zombies from the Carnivorous Cavern (area 3)
and, if between midnight and 3am alert the
worship group in this room to the presence of
strangers. The floor glyph will cause blindness,
and the wall glyphs will do 10 points of fire
damage each.
6. Outer Temple of Set
Two rows of thick pillars covered with cha-
otic designs support the 50-foot tall ceiling
of this hall. At the north end of the chamber
is a huge stone idol of a man with the sneer-
ing head of a jackal. The eyes of the idol
look like large red gems. The idol's hands
rest on his knees. Before the massive idol, a
pit 10 feet across glows with a pulsating red
From midnight to 3am, there will be 13 people
here, standing around the pit. All wear red
robes with hoods that cover their faces. Four of
them stand beside the idol, two on each side
facing south, while the other nine face the pit
looking north. The four around the pit will be
Corga Kazan, Korus Eikoth, and two acolytes;
the remainder are dervish cultists.
If anyone attempts to pry the gemstones,
which appear to be worth 10,000 gp each, from
the face of the statue, its 10-foot long arms will
animate and attack as a 16 + HD monster with
an AC of 0 and 80 hp each. Each arm does 4d10
damage points. Once removed, the stones will
start to glow brightly and give off intense heat,
causing 6d6 damage points to all within 10 feet
of them. After one turn, the stones will melt
and the heat will disappear. If an ice storm or
cone of cold is used on the gems, they will
become cold immediately and retain their full
From the depths of the pit comes a faint, pul-
sating red light. The pit appears to be bottom-
less. This is an illusion, for the pit is actually
only 100 feet deep. The illusion is placed at the
50-foot level and a character lowered on a rope
farther than this will see the pit for what it
really is. At the 60-foot level a pair of secret
doors are located on the east side. The doors
open outwards. They lead to a smooth, but
climbable, chute leading steeply upwards to a
horizontal, solid stone ceiling. This ceiling is
the dropping floor in Cross and Double Cross
(area 9); the trap cannot be triggered from
here. A large number of skeletons are at the
bottom of the pit. Small pieces of jewelry
worth a total of 300 gp are scattered among the
Corga Kazan, dervish cleric: AC 5; MV 12"; C
5; hp 27; #AT 1; D 1d6 + 2; AL LE. He car-
ries the following spells: command, cure
light wounds, darkness, light, sanctuary,
hold person twice per day, silence 15' radi-
us, know alignment, dispel magic. He is
armed with a mace +1. For more details,
see the section on Major Non-Player Char-
acters in Chapter 9: Oasis of the White
Korus Eikoth, second son of the sheik: AC 1;
MV 12"; F7; hp 45; #AT 3/2; D 1d8 + 4; AL
75
LE; strength bonus +2 to hit, +4 damage;
S 18/88; I 11; W 9; Dex 15; Con 15; Ch 10.
Korus is armed with a scimitar +1 and
wears chainmail +2. He also has one
potion of ESP and six arrows + 1. For more
details, see the section on
I Major Non-
Player Characters in Chapter 9: Oasis of
the White Palm.
2 Acolytes: AC 6; MV 12": C 2; hp 11,6; #AT
1; D 1d8; AL LE. Each has the following
spells: darkness, command, cause fear,
cause light wounds.
Dervish cultists: AC 7; MV 12"; F 3; hp
15,15,14,20,20,10,12,23,13; #AT 1; D 1d4;
AL LN.
7. Acolytes' Quarters
This 20-foot square room is sparsley fur-
nished with three sets of rude desks and
beds and three small chests.
The acolytes will be here except from midnight
to 3am, when they will be in the Outer Temple
(area 6). They are fiercely dedicated to their
cause and religion and would rather die than
betray them.
The chests contain only old clothes, socks,
religious books, etc. An ancient wall safe is
concealed behind a small secret door in the east
wall. Four small boxes are inside, one each of
gold, silver, lead, and obsidian. The obsidian
box contains a phylactery of monstrous atten-
tion and a periapt of foul rotting; it is guarded
by a glyph of warding that will cause 2d10
points of lightning damage when touched, and
only Corga knows that the word Tabang neu-
tralizes the glyph. The gold and silver boxes
contain incense of obsession while the lead box
contains incense of meditation.
2 Acolytes: AC 6; MV 12"; C 2; hp 11,6; #AT
1; D 1d8; AL LE. Each has the following
spells: darkness, command, cause fear,
cause light wounds.
8. Priest's Purification
Chamber
Wall carvings showing grand harvests have
been defaced and scarred in this 30-foot
square room. Three elaborate basins stand
on decorated pedestals, each containing a
different liquid. The first liquid is clear, the
second liquid, which bubbles and steams, is
a dull red, and the third liquid, which
burns, is amber.
These basins are used in the evil priest's cere-
mony of preparation. The unholy water in the
first basin will cause 1d6 + 1 damage points to

===== I3-5 PAGE 90 =====
6. Kitchen of Khalif Mubrek
Along the left wall of this large, lofty
kitchen, are three, large ovens and a cook-
ing surface with an iron grate across a
hearth. The opposite wall is lined with cup-
boards, and the right wall has three water
taps. On the opposite wall is a doorway
over which are runes that reform them-
selves to state, "Go out this door."
There is nothing in the room except for the
water taps which drip water, ever so slowly,
into the basins below them. The cupboards
The three water taps are more practical
jokes. The first tap operates normally, but
when a man bends to drink from it or take
water from it, the water will lessen until the
flow stops; the flow will begin again as the
adventurer withdraws. The water from the
second tap will flow normally until a PC tries
to drink or withdraw water from it. Then, the
water will pour forth to spray the PC in the
face. This water in the third tap can be drawn
or drunk without difficulty, but it will turn the
lips and tongue of the drinker black for 24
hours after each use.
7. The Hall of Khalif Mubrek
This long, narrow hall is designed to lead to
the sleeping quarters of the house. In the
center of the hall is an obelisk of black stone
upon which is inscribed a raised hand, palm
facing toward the kitchen door. The obelisk
blocks the view of the opposite wall. Sev-
eral bodies can be seen beyond the obelisk.
As the runes over the exit in area 6 warned, the
adventurers should not enter this room, for
danger lies within. If they should not venture
beyond the black obelisk, they will have to
combat an exact duplicate of themselves.
This room is a lock to keep those who have
entered the sleeping quarters of the house in
those rooms. The side of the obelisk opposite
the kitchen door is a mirror of opposition. If
any PC approaches, it will produce his dupli-
cate as soon as his reflection may be seen. The
duplicate will step from the mirror and fight to
the death. It will be armed and armored exact-
ly like the PC, but there will be no magic
attached to any of the duplicate's equipment. It
will have the same number of hp that the PC
has at the time of the attack. The bodies seen
beyond the obelisk are those of unwary adven-
turers who were killed by their duplicates; the-
se bodies did not produce skeletons. One is of a
dwarf with a pickaxe.
In the floor just in front of the mirror of
opposition, there is a trap door. It leads to a
cellar below. In the cellar is a rough-hewn tun-
nel that leads to the pit beneath the Death Trap
of Chininsk Ambar (area 12); this tunnel was
made by the dwarf with the pickaxe, who was
unlucky enough to be killed by his duplicate, a
classic case of tunneling from the frying pan
into the fire.
8. The Secret Maze of Kharan
The door stands open to a darkened room
beyond. Light supplied by torches and the
glow from above has difficulty piercing the
interior gloom. From the room comes the
must smell of stale air, as though from
something long-dead. Above and around
the door are inscribed runes, which reform
themselves to read:
Step boldly all who enter here. Tis
not the place for cowards.
Conquer selves and inner fear.
Who dares will be rewarded.
For play in this area, use Map 12-2 in the Map
Booklet. The play of the maze is divided into
two parts: the party must negotiate the Maze
of Darkness to find the teleporter that will take
them to the Maze of Light, where they must
negotiate the Hall of Mirrors to find the exit.
8a. The Maze of Darkness
Just inside the door is a 4-foot-wide corri-
dor that branches off to the right. The
walls, floor, and ceiling are constructed of
black stone, so dark and lusterless that they
seem to absorb all light. The only sparks of
color being the clothing and equipment.
The party should be allowed to grope through
the maze, turning which ever way they want.
Sooner or later they will reach the silver tele-
portation disk set into the floor of the maze.
They will have to use this disk to enter the sec-
ond portion of the maze. The disk is 3 feet 6
inches in diameter and nearly fills the entire
corridor. It is possible to maneuver around the
disk, but with only 3 inches to spare on either
side, a Dexterity check will be required from
all but thieves, who may use their climb walls
chance if it is better.
Any person touching the disk, by stepping
into it, by touching it accidentally, or by
attempting to mark it for future reference, will
be teleported. If a coin or other object is
thrown onto the disk, it will remain there. If
someone tries to pick up the coin, as soon as
the connection is made with the coin, no mat-
ter how slight, he will be teleported. If, after a
coin is thrown onto the disk a party member
steps onto the disk, the party member will be
teleported, leaving the coin untouched. That
the party is to use the disk is found in the
inscription over the front door.
8b. The Maze of Light
The light in the room is blinding, with thou-
sands of torches illuminating the space. The
torches dance and move together alongside
thousands of faces, also all the same.
This is a maze of mirrors made of highly pol-
ished, white marble. The stone will reflect
clearly the light brought to the room as well as
the faces and actions of those transported here.
When judging this encounter, the DM should
remember that anything that is done will be
reflected infinitely. Thus, if a coin is placed on
the floor, it will appear reflected in every direc-
tion.
By careful thought, the maze can be defeat-
ed. Unlike other mazes which may be solved
by always turning in the same direction, this
maze is made up of a series of free-standing
surfaces. If the party can find an exterior wall,
they will be able to solve the puzzle.
One of the best ways to solve the problem is
to reduce the amount of light to a single
source, and then hood this one as much as pos-
sible. The party can then link hands or rope
them selves together, and begin to fumble
through the maze. If a free-standing mirror is
encountered, the front of the party will usually
be able to circumnavigate it to see the last
member of the party going round the corner.
9. Entry Corridor of Chininsk
Ambar
A long, narrow corridor extends into the
darkness to the left. Across the hall is an
arched door, above which is a mosaic cal-
ligraphy. The door is of wood bound with
iron with the latch on the left and the hinges
behind the door to the right, as shown by
the large, reinforcing straps riveted to the
door on that side. The door pushes open to
The corridor is blocked at the left end by rub-
ble and sand, and so the door must be
breached before the party can continue. The
latch shows no sign of being trapped, but when
lifted, it will not function. Everything about
this door is the opposite of what would be
expected from the description.
Depressing the latch, not lifting as expected,
causes it to release the door catch. But instead
of releasing a catch on the left side of the door,
as expected, it actually releases a catch on the
right. Furthermore, the door, instead of push-
ing open to the right as expected, pulls open to
the left. Thus, by pushing against the door
while lifting the latch (which is what would be
the expected method of opening the door),
90

===== I3-5 PAGE 100 =====
6. Lovers. A pair of young people sit side-by-
side in a small,
ivy-covered
alcove,
engrossed in each other. If they are not
approached, the vision will fade in a min-
ute. If approaches, the boy will look up and
smile at the approaching PCs, but the girl
will collapse against his shoulder. As this
happens, the boy will raise his hand as if to
restrain the PCs. If not approached closer,
the vision will fade. If the PCs continue to
approach, the boy will turn to the girl,
holding her closely in her arms. Both will
become skeletal as the approach continues,
fading into the darkness before contact can
be made.
Cursed City Random Event Table
1. A Warning. Materializing out of the dark-
ness, a spectral form appears. The figure is
cloaked, its feet disappearing into the dark-
ness that seems to intensify around the fig-
ure. Slowly raising its head to reveal
glowing eyes under the hood, it holds up a
skeletal hand and speaks, "Only brave men
need continue here. Beware all others in
this place." The spectral shape fades from
sight.
2. Ghost Thief: AC 8; MV g"; HD 5; hp 24;
#AT 1; D 1d6; SA age 10-40 years; SD mag-
ic or silver weapons needed to hit; AL CE.
The ghost will appear behind the last party
member in the affected group. It will attack
with surprise; normal saving throws are
applicable.
3. 1-3 Ghost Fighters: AC 3; MV 12"; HD 7;
#AT 1; D 1d8; SA age 10-40 years; SD mag-
ic or silver weapons needed to hit; AL LE.
The fighters will appear in front of the par-
ty, blocking passage. They will attack
immediately. Saving throws vs. fear are
applicable only on the first encounter with
these ghosts.
4. Wight: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4+3; #AT 1; D
1-4; SA energy drain; SD silver or magical
weapons to hit; AL LE. The wight appears
from the direction of the closest unexplored
ruin.
5. Wraith: AC 4; MV 12" /24"; HD 5+3; #AT
1; D 1d6 + energy drain; SD silver or magi-
cal weapons needed to hit; AL LE. The
wraith will appear from the direction of the
nearest unexplored ruin.
6. The Last Caravan. This encounter will take
place only if the party is in the city square.
It will occur only once on any one night.
Reroll if otherwise.
A caravan is surrounded by a horde of
screaming people. The caravaneers are
fighting desperately against the mob, but
they are losing ground. A gigantic fighter,
standing near the lead camel is fighting four
other men and is holding them at bay. A
spear, thrown by an unseen antagonist,
strikes him in the shoulder; he turns toward
the assault. Someone stabs with a sword,
the blow striking the giant in the back. He
stumbles and, before he can recover, is
swept under by the mob. The last camel in
line is down and thrashing out with his
hooves as the mob swirls over him like the
rising tide covering a reef.
If the party intervenes, they will become
targets for attack by 6d6 of the ghostly
mob. If the party remains on the sidelines,
1-3 of the mob will see them and attack.
The party withdraws, they may watch the
destruction of the last caravan to leave
Medinat Muskawoon.
Ghostly Mob: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 15;
#AT 1; D 1d4; SA nil; SD silver or magic
weapons to hit; AL LE.
1. Limestone Causeway
The causeway that leads northwest
through the blasted and rugged hills sur-
rounding the city ruins is made of white
limestone. Its top is perfectly smooth and
flat, a perfect roadway no narrower than 20
feet wide.
2. Riddle Obelisk
An obelisk stands tall in the center of the
northern city square. Its base is 25 feet
square, and its height is well over 100 feet.
The slanting walls are polished and reflec-
tive, save at the base, wherein are etched
inscriptions in the ancient alphabet. The
inscription on the east and west sides is
long, probably of several sentences. That
on the north and south sides is but a few
words, and beneath it is a fist-sized indenta-
tion.
The inscription on the east and west sides is
the riddle that the players must solve if they
are to obtain the Star of Melos-Pelar. It is
reproduced as Inscription 13-A on the
reverse of the DM's fold-up map, and is
translated as follows:
Star is hidden from sunlight by the Sun.
Four tests must ye pass before it shines
forth. To hunt treasure ye must treasure
hunt. From the gods, their gifts seek.
Cleanliness is next to godliness. When
ye have a friend's tears, the fiery gift,
and the hawk's wings, carry ye the four-
100
teen golden links to bridge the swamp.
Only then can mortals hear the chimes
and then may the Star light the way.
The shorter inscription on the north and south
walls is reproduced as Inscription 13-B on the
reverse of the DM's fold-up map. It reads as
follows:
In its appointed time shall man arise
from his ignorance and, reaching for the
stars, offer them in wisdom.
Once the Star of Melos-Pelar is obtained from
the Temple of Ra, the obelisk will chime, con-
tinuing to do so until this occurs. If any other
Star Gem is placed in the hole, the east-and
west-face inscriptions will begin to glow. If,
after the Star of Melos-Pelar is found, another
Star Gem is placed in the indentation,
chime will be somewhat muted, but will con-
tinue nevertheless. If the Star of Melos-Pelar is
placed in the hollow place under the writing,
read the boxed description below.
In a soft, though commandingly penetrat-
ing voice, the obelisk begins to speak
aloud, saying:
"The Sphere of Power retrieve:
This then is destiny's decree.
Doom and death with no reprieve:
This is the ancient prophecy.
Go ye to his mighty tomb
Where sky meets shore and sky again,
There sound the note, dispel the gloom,
And bring the light to entrance gain."
The Star Gem that was placed in the hollow
flares into sudden brilliance, lit from with-
in. The voice continues:
*The gem before you takes the power
To light the way toward Martek's tower,
Where, if survive those here assembled,
All shall see their finest hour."
And the Star Gem, its light extinguished,
falls onto the square.
From this point on, that gem will glow with
soft white light when held in the hand. If the
hand holding the gem is pointed in the direc-
tion of the Pillar of Martek (Map 6-1, area 25),
it will flare up with a brilliant white light.
3 and 4. The Narrows and
Glass Lake
Between the high, tortured hills to the
northeast probes a glittering tongue of
glass. To the very shores of this tongue the
rugged rocky slopes press in. Straight as an
arrow it runs to the sea of glass beyond.
The mile-long mirrored lake is nearly

===== I3-5 PAGE 110 =====
Once inside the Grand Hall, the PCs and
NPCs will compete for the the three miniature
crystal minarets needed to complete the Cita-
del model in the Cathedral (area 4). Complet-
ing this model will allow them entry into the
Martek's Inner Sanctum.
If you intend to add this complication, you
must decide how the NPCs will behave. There
are two ways of doing this. One way would be
to have the NPCs precede the PCs wherever
they go. This will add a great deal of excite-
ment in the short run, as the PCs spot the
NºCs ahead, but with careful planning on the
part of the party, it could end abruptly if the
PCs can manage to kill off or otherwise inca-
pacitate the NPCs. It is not likely, unless you
only use the NPCs as a plot device, that they
will make it all the way to Martek's tomb, and
so the excitement this mode generates is proba-
bly short-lived.
A second way, requiring perhaps a bit more
work on your part, would be to plot out what
the NPCs will do before you learn what the
PCs intend. If you make up a time-line of NPC
play, perhaps by actually playing out the NPC
searches through the Citadel, then you will
have a guide as to what takes place when the
party does its own searches. The PCs could
come upon the NPCs while they were hard at
work, or vice versa. The NPCs could even
solve part of the puzzle before the party, gain-
ing whatever treasure is to be had.
case, you should take care to play the NPCs in
a reasonable way. The most important thing to
the NPCs is their survival. The next most
important thing will be to get to Martek's
tomb. They should not be run in self-destruct
mode, either by throwing them to the party
like cannon fodder or to the monsters either. If
you assume that the NPCs are at least as intelli-
gent as the party, the end result will be more
exciting, and more dangerous for the PCs.
It is not likely that the evil NPCs would split
up, there being more safety in numbers, but it
may be that one would scout ahead. Neither is
it likely that the evil NPCs would fight
amongst themselves, ignoring their ultimate
safety. It is also unlikely that Percivilis would
team up with the other three NPCs. Yet, you
could use any of these paths of action if it will
help make play more interesting.
The object here is to have fun yourself and
to provide excitement and fun for your play-
ers. Only you know your group and how they
will behave. If they have a hard time solving
puzzles without any outside interference, keep
the NPC activity low-key or dispense with it
altogether. If they start to trash the dungeons
too quickly, heighten the intensity of the NPC
interaction. Use the NPCs to give the party
some interesting choices, such as rescuing the
NºCs from a wandering monster attack.
Whatever occurs, the NPCs should not get to
the Inner Sanctum of Martek very far ahead of
the party.
Trifakas (human wizard): AC 4; MV 12"; MU
12; hp 30; #AT 1; D 1d4; AL LE; SA and SD
spell abilities; S 7; I 18; W 9; Dex 17; Con
12; Ch 15. He can cast the following spells
once per day: charm person, comprehend
languages, jump, write; darkness 15-foot
radius, forget, web, wizard lock; fireball,
haste, lightning bolt, slow; fumble, poly-
morph other, polymorph self; feeblemind
magic jar, passwall, teleport; legend lore.
Trifakas will behave in a gracious and
priestly manner toward the PCs. He will be
polite and helpful, all the while scheming
and probing the PCs for their knowledge
about the area and the location of the Star
Gems. In his first conversation with the
PCs, he will want to know whether they
have any large gemstones, telling them that
gems might be useful in activating the tele-
port platform where they arrived (Dais of
Reception, area 4). He will also tell them
that, to his knowledge, that is the only way
out of the Garden. Trifakas knows that the
teleport platform will not operate in
reverse, but he does not want the PCs to
experiment at the doors of the Grand Hall
He knows that the names of the Star Gems
must be used with the stones to open the
doors to the Grand Hall. He has tried the
words without the stones, but nothing hap-
pened. If really pressed, he will tell the PCs
that the names of the gems that open the
doors are "Pelar, Sellar, Kellar" and that
they must be spoken in that order. This is a
lie, of course, to make sure that the party
does not get into the Grand Hall before he
does. He also knows that the names of the
Star Gems are sacred to the guilders, who
will attack anyone speaking those words.
He will not tell the names of the stones to
anyone because, once he has the Star
Gems, that is his only way out of the Gar-
den of the Cursed.
Pawnis (drow elf fighter/thief): AC 5; MV12";
F2/T8; hp 42; #AT 1; D 1d6; AL CE; SA
magical abilities; SD + 2 on all saves; MR
70%; S 12; I 13; W 10; Dex 16; Con 10; Ch
13. Pawnis is armed with a short sword and
a dagger, both of which lost their drow
magic in the desert; he has two darts coated
with drow sleep poison (save vs. poison at
-4 or sleep for 1d10+2 rounds) that he
managed to keep well buried. He also wears
chainmail armor and his outer wear, care-
fully sealed against the rays of the sun, still
act like a cloak of elvenkind and boots of
elvenkind. Pawnis has 12" infravision and
110
can use the following spells once per day:
dancing lights, darkness, faerie fire, detect
magic, know alignment, levitate.
Pawnis believes (incorrectly) that the key
to the great doors has something to dow
with the Mound of the Lawgivers as well as
with the three great stars from the guilder
legends. He does not know what the Star
Gems are or do, and Trifakas has not told
him; nevertheless, he suspects Trifakas is
withholding something, though he hides
this suspicion. Pawnis knows that the
Mound of the Lawgivers is a place of death
and that very few will tread on its slopes.
He is smart enough to see that his best shot
at leaving the Garden of the Cursed is with
Trifakas and Sardok.
Sardok (human thief): AC 4; MV 12"; T 10; hp
38; #AT 1; D 1d6 + 2; AL CE; S 14; 1 16; W
10; Dex 15; Con 17; Ch 12.
Sardok, though cunning, cruel, and usually
rude, is more loyal to Trifakas than is
Pawnis. He trusts Trifakas more, and he
truly believes that the wizard will get him
out of here. He is willing to continue his
deception of the guilders until that day.
Percivilis (human paladin): AC 4; MV 12"; P
6; hp 43; #AT 1; D 1d8; AL LG; S 17; I 16;
W 13; Dex 15; Con 12; Ch 18.
Percivilis wears chain mail + 1 and uses a long-
sword. He has joined the palan-teen in the Gar-
den of the Cursed because they seem like him.
He knows the basic history of the peoples of
the Garden, and how they came to be there. He
also knows that Trifakas and his assistants are
recent arrivals and nothing more than two
thieves and a greedy wizard in search of
power, fortune, and fame. Believing as he does
that if you haven't anything nice to say that

===== I3-5 PAGE 120 =====
changes here. If the PCs watch the rocks that
break away and fly into the storm, they will
notice that all of the large pieces bump against
the island before hurtling down into the whirl-
pool of the Black Abyss. Each large rock can
safely carry one person to the island. Find the
distance to the island using the current hex
size.
7. Island of Crystal
This platform of giant crystals, flats in the
center of the storm. All around the island,
the whirlpool spins faster and faster before
racing down into the chasm of the Black
Abyss, but the air here is calm. The island
and the air above it glow with a soft white
light. In the center of the island, a miniature
crystal minaret stands on top of a crystal
base.
The moment each character steps onto the crystal
island, the effects of the distance, time and magic
changes stop for that character. The island is
roughly triangular, about 100 feet on a side.
The crystal minaret is the treasure the PCs
seek. Removing it from the base will cause the
island to break apart, however, and it and
everyone on it will plunge into the whiripool
storm surrounding the island. As they fall, the
distance, time, and magic changes will start
again. But the problem is not for the falling
characters, but for those who remain behind,
for the crystal minaret will transform the
storm into a teleport of limited duration, as
discussed in the description for Chaos (area 8).
Read the following boxed description when
a character removes the crystal minaret. Do
not mention the teleport.
As you pull the crystal minaret from its
base, a horrible, loud rumble shakes the
area. Putting the crystal back in its base
does no good. The sound gets louder. The
soft white light of the island starts to pulse
and turns red. The winds of the storm move
in to cover the island. The spinning clouds
make it almost impossible to see. The crys-
tals sizzle as red lightning strikes them.
Suddenly, in a flash of light and a shower of
flying crystals, the entire island explodes!
Those on it fall into the whirlpool storm of
the Abyss and disappear.
8. Chaos
As you fall at a terrifying speed, the wind
blasts you in gusts. The glowing clouds all
around feel damp and clammy. Ruby-
colored lightning streaks past, barely miss-
ing you. You're being tumbled head-over-
heels into the center of the storm, still fall-
ing. The whirling clouds spin into a single
hole of nothingness. There is no light, no
dark, no time or space. The spiral storm
spins toward the planes of the Abyss ahead
You feel yourself being pulled further into
the Abyss, to be trapped forever.
Anyone falling into this storm before the
removing of the crystal minaret destroys the
Island of Crystal (area 7) will fall into the 666
planes of the Abyss.
After the crystal minaret has been removed,
however, the storm will teleport the charac-
ters, their gear, and the crystal minaret back to
the Return from Other Worlds (Crystal Prism
area 7a). This teleport will last for 10 rounds
only, and then any character that remains
behind will be trapped here forever. During
this 10 rounds, however, any character
remaining who jumps or talls into the storm
will be teleported back as well.
The problem is one for the players to figure
out. There is no way to see the teleport spell
work, for the visibility is so poor. Other spells
may allow them to gain the knowledge that
they should jump, but with the various distor-
tions, this may be a matter of luck.
Mobius Tower
Encounter Areas
Use Map 14-6 from the Map Booklet for play in
this area. The sections on Background and
Expected Play give information that will be
useful in refereeing play here.
Mobius Tower Random
Encounters
There are no random encounters in the Mobius
Tower, though there are planned encounters in
many areas.
1. Arrival
You find yourself standing in a 40-foot
square room, dimly lit by torches on the
walls. There is a stillness in the room; there
is no sound or motion here. With a start,
you notice that the dim flames in the torch-
es do not flicker.
You are standing on a raised circular plat-
form 20 teet across. To the south, a glitter-
ing object sits on a pillow. Four doorways
lead out of the room, one near each corner
of the room. The northeast door is open 2
feet. The southwest door is wide open, and
the other two doors are closed.
None of the doors will move at all since they
are time-trapped. The doors cannot be dam-
120
aged. The torch flames are hard and cold.
The glittering object is the crystal minaret that
the PCs need. Finding it was easy. The crystal
minaret and the pillow on which it rests, how-
ever, will not move through any physical means
nor any magical means save a teleport spell to the
Tower of Time (Level 4, area 26).
2. Apartment of the Firstwife
A large oval bed strewn with pillows is in
the center of this 30-foot-square room. The
figure of a woman dressed in royal robes
sits on the edge of the bed, unmoving. She
is inspecting a curved dagger blade. An
ornate door stands open in the center of the
west wall, and a curtain of beads blocks an
archway in the east wall.
The woman looks elven, but evil and cunning,
judging by the expression on her face. There is
some sort of liquid frozen onto the blade of the
dagger. The bead curtain cannot be moved;
behind it are many fine clothes. The west door
leads to a spiral staircase going up to area 20 of
Level 2.
This woman was part of a plot against her
husband,
the sheik of this tower. She was
imprisoned in this room for her plotting. Her
spirit has become a groaning spirit that lives in
this room.
The spirit will appear 1d6 rounds after the PCs
enter and then speak in a moaning voice, saying:
"For uncounted time have I sorrowed in these
halls and now you, the living, come to torment
me. Why do you curse me for my very
thoughts?" She will attack immediately, using her
keening wail 2d4 rounds after the start of melee.
The keening wail will cause all within the room to
save vs. death magic or die immediately.
Groaning Spirit: AC 0; MV 15"; HD 7: hp 22;
#AT 1; D 1d8; AL CE; SA keening wail.
3. Closet
Behind the immoveable bead curtain are
many fine clothes within this 10-foot-
square closet.
Even if the PCs can get through the bead curtain,
which cannot be damaged or broken, everything
here is time-trapped and will not move.
4. Guard Room
This small 20-foot-square room has two
arched doorways, one in the south wall and
one in the east wall. Four large, muscular
figures stand at attention along the west
wall, apparently guards. Their faces are
masked by turbans, and they wear robes.
They have large scimitars at their sides.

===== I3-5 PAGE 130 =====
Map 6-3 (Players):