
===== PAGE 1 =====


===== PAGE 2 =====
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS®
Fantasy Adventure Module
by Tracy and Laura Hickman
An Adventure for Character Levels 5-7
Ravenloft is a classic gothic horror story. Many mysteries sur-
round Strahd, his castle Ravenloft, and the lands of Barovia. After
entering Barovia, the PCs are trapped by a deadly fog. Their
adventure can run in any direction, culminating in a fantastic
vampire hunt.
The dark forests of Barovia are filled with wolves and other crea-
tures, making travel there quite unsafe.
In a clearing in the Svalich woods, lies a gypsy camp. Only Madam
Eva and her troupe pass in and out of Barovia. There are rumors
that Strahd gave Madam Eva a potion that neutralizes the fog, but
no one has ever actually seen the potion. It is well known that
Madam Eva foretells the future with surprising accuracy.
The village of Barovia is a sad place now. Most of the shops have
been forced to close. The night, and its creatures, belong to Strahd.
When the sun sets, the people of Barovia barricade their homes,
trembling in fear. Each night the attacks get worse.
The Burgomaster's mansion is the center of most attacks. For some
reason, Strahd is after Ireena Kolyana, the Burgomaster's adopted
daughter. Since the Burgomaster was killed, and his mansion's
great holy symbol stolen, Ireena is without protection.
On the outskirts of the village sits a church. Only the constant
prayers of the priest keep it safe at night.
Far above the village sits Castle Ravenloft, Strahd's home and
fortress. Every night thousands of bats fly out of the castle's towers
to feed. It is said that sometimes Strahd flies with them. Certainly,
Barovia will never be safe until all the evil in his castle is destroyed.
No one knows what hides within the castle. Ancient tales tell of
dungeons and catacombs deep under the castle. Other stories recall
the great halls, treasures, and glory of Ravenloft centuries ago.
Undoubtedly Strahd has installed numerous deadly traps since
then.
Editor: Curtis Smith
Graphic Designer: Debra Stubbe
Illustrator: Clyde Caldwell
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and AD&D are trademarks of TSR, Inc.
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc.
and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd.
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors.
Distributed in the United Kingdom by TSR (UK), Ltd.
This module is protected under the copyright laws of the United States of
America. Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or
artwork contained herein is prohibited without the express written per-
mission of TSR, Inc.
ISBN 0-88038-042-X
394-53465-4TSR0600
PRINTED IN USA
TSR, Inc.
FOB 756
Lake Geneva,
Wl 53147
TSR (UK) Ltd.
The Mill, Rathmore Road
Cambridge CB HAD
United Kingdom
TSR , Inc 9075
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Count Strahd von Zarovich
Who he is and how to play him ..................... 3
Fortunes of Ravenloft
The gypsy card reading that foretells the adventure .... 4
Lands of Barovia
The Count's domain ............................... 6
Start of the Adventure
A desperate plea for help ........................... 7
Lands of Barovia Planned Encounters
Meeting Strahd and his creatures .................... 7
Svalich Woods
Home of the worg wolves ........................... 7
Village of Barovia
Once a prosperous town, now without hope .......... 8
Burgomaster's mansion
Where Strahd seeks Ireena Kolyana .................. 9
Gypsy Camp
Temporary home to Madam Eva and her troupe ....... 11
Castle Ravenloft
Strahd's home and fortress .......................... 12
Castle Ravenloft Planned Encounters
Main Floor ....................................... 13
Court of the Count ................................. 17
Rooms of Weeping ................................ 18
Spires of Ravenloft ................................. 21
Larders of Ill Omen ................................ 22
Dungeon and Catacomb ............................ 24
Optional Ending
After 500 years, Tatyana and Sergei reunited .......... 30
Appendices
New monsters, NPCs, and treasures .................. 30
The Tome of Strahd
How Strahd became the first Vampyr ................ 31

===== PAGE 3 =====
"I am the ancient. My beginnings are lost in the darknessof the past. I am not dead. Nor am I alive. I am undead, forever."
-Count Strahd von Zarovich
This module is designed for a party of six to eight player
characters (PCs) of the 5th to 7th levels of experience. A balance of
character classes is helpful since the PCs will face a wide variety of
problems. Each character class will certainly have its moment to
shine. At least one of the PCs must be a fighter with a longsword.
Read this entire module before playing. This module includes
some complicated spells and traps. Pay special attention to these
parts before running this module, to make your game flow more
smoothly.
Some areas described in this module are exact duplicates of
other areas. Areas that are exactly alike have the same number on
the maps. There is only one text description to use for each of these
areas.
When the vampire, Strahd von Zarovich, is destroyed, the
adventure is over. You must use every power available to the
vampire to keep him (and the game) going. When the
vampire is truly destroyed, you may want to use the
optional ending on p. 30 to end this adventure.
Sometimes, characters must make dexterity or
constitution checks. To make a dexterity/ con-
stitution check, a character must roll his dex-
terity/constitution or less on 1d20. The effects of
the the roll are explained in each case.
All indoor and nighttime descriptions are
written with the assumption that the PCs are using a torch
to see by. A torch normally lights a 40-foot-radius
area.
New monsters and types of nonplayer characters
(NPCs) are explained in Monsters, Creatures, and Men, on
p. 31. Whenever NPCs or monsters appear in the text, their
statistics are given as follows:
# monster name: armor class; movement; hit dice;
points; number of attacks per round; dam-
age; alignment; special attacks; special defenses;
other attributes and abilities as necessary.
Abbreviations Used in Statistics
AC=Armor Class
MV=Movement
HD=Hit Dice
hp=hit points
#AT=Attacks/round
Dmg=Damage
SA=Special Attacks
SD=Special Defense
MR=Magic
Resistance
C=Cleric
F=Fighter
MU=Magic User
T=Thief
S=Strength
I=Intelligence
W=Wisdom
D=Dexterity
Con=Constitution
Ch=Charisma
AL=Alignment
LG=Lawful Good
NG=Neutral Good
CG=Chaotic Good
CN=Chaotic Neutral
LN=Lawful Neutral
N=True Neutral
CE=Chaotic Evil
NE=Neutral Evil
LE=Lawful Evil

===== PAGE 4 =====
Count Strahd
Von Zarovich, Vampire
The entire adventure centers around the vampire. Always keep in
mind the motives of the vampire, how he moves about, and what
his cunning plot is. You must play Strahd in the same way the
players play their characters. Study this NPC as carefully as the
players study their characters.
Count Strahd Von Zarovich (The First Vampyr)
FREQUENCY: Unique
NUMBER APPEARING: 1
ARMOR CLASS:-1
MOVE: 12"/18"
HIT DICE: 10 (55 hit points)
% IN LAIR: 90%
TREASURE TYPE: F
NUMBER OF ATTACKS: 1
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 5-10 (ld6+4)
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Energy Drain
SPECIAL DEFENSES: +1 or better weapon to hit
MAGIC RESISTANCE: See below
INTELLIGENCE: Genius
ALIGNMENT: CE
SIZE: M
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil
Although Strahd can be encountered in many places, he is always
encountered in the place indicated by your Fortunes of Ravenloft
results (see p. 4), unless he has been forced to his tomb.
Strahd is a slightly above-average vampire. He has the normal
18/76 strength and his blows drain 2 life levels from his oppo-
nents. Strahd has the usual vampire abilities. He can only be hit by
magical weapons and can regenerate 3 hit points per round. He
can assume gaseous form at will or shape change into a large bat.
He can charm person at will by gazing into a character's eyes,
causing that character to make a saving throw vs. spells with a
penalty of -2.
Strahd is also a 10th level magic user. He learned his magic
from studies during his life and from subsequent studies over the
centuries. His available spells are:
First level: comprehend languages,
hold portal, protection from good, sleep.
Second level: invisibility, locate objects,
mirror image, ESP.
Third level: fireball, gust of wind, suggestion.
Fourth level: polymorph other, polymorph self.
Fifth level: animate dead, distance distortion
Strahd has a variety of spies and servants. They report to him four
times each day (at dawn, noon, dusk, and midnight). There is a
60% chance that Strahd knows the PCs' location at these times. If
Strahd knows their location, he attacks the PCs—wherever they
are—within two hours. Strahd chooses the time and method of his
attacks carefully.
Strahd can attack in each of the following ways once.
1. Strahd attacks a single PC for 5 melee rounds, then leaves.
2. Strahd calls 10-15 Strahd zombies to attack the party. All of the
zombies must attack at the same time in the same place.
3. Strahd calls 3-12 worg wolves to attack the party. All of the
wolves must attack at the same time in the same place.
When playing Strahd, above all, keep these three things in mind.
1. Strahd chooses when he attacks. Strahd is supposed to be a
genius, play him as one. Whenever he is aware of the PCs'
positions, he is allowed to make an attack how and where he
wants. His attacks must be timed to be most advantageous to
him. To do that, Strahd must move around during the adven-
ture. However, he can always be found in the place deter-
mined in Fortunes of Ravenloft. It is your responsibility to see
that the vampire uses his abilities to his greatest advantage.
2. Strahd knows when to withdraw. He knows when he is in over
his head. If he is losing a battle he becomes gaseous, poly-
morphs into a wolf or bat, and/or summons other creatures to
guard his retreat.
3. Strahd's attacks depend upon his goals. There is a reason why
Strahd lured the PCs into his little kingdom. This reason is
determined in Fortunes of Ravenloft. Strahd's plans for
achieving his goal are listed with his goals.

===== PAGE 5 =====
Deal the
top five
cards
face down.
Fortunes of Ravenloft is an imitation ancient gypsy card read-
ing. It does not resemble any real or mystical fortune telling
process. Fortunes of Ravenloft determines Strahd's goals and the
placement of important treasures. This card reading can add a
great deal of flavor to your game, and makes Ravenloft different
when you play it again.
You must run this card reading before playing this module.
If, during the course of the adventure, the PCs have their for-
tunes read at the gypsy camp, run this card reading again, out
loud. Substitute the new results for the old ones. Be sure to write
down the results of your card reading, so you have them when
you need them.
Find a regular 52-card deck of playing cards. Remove all 2, 4,
6, 8, 9, and joker cards from the deck. Now you have a set of
four suits with eight cards in each suit. Shuffle the deck.
If you don't have a regular deck of cards, you can get the
same results by rolling 1d8 to determine the type of card and 1d4
to determine its suit. Roll again if you get the same card in any
suit twice.
Table 1. Fortunes of Ravenloft: Places
Card Place
STUDY (K37)
TREASURE ROOM (K41)
I You should seek for a carefully hidden plate of great worldly
wealth. I see a blazing lire protecting the place.
The object is set prominently atop the other treasures in the
room. If Strahd is there, he is counting his ill-gotten gains.
CHAPEL OF RAVENLOFT (K15)
You may find this amid she ruins of a place of suppli-
cation.
10
The object is on the altar, brightly illuminated by a shaft of light
from the ceiling. If Strahd is there, he is standing in the center of
the room — a dark shape in the vast hall.
HIGH TOWER ROOM (K60)
| This is in a place of dizzying heights that all loathe to travel.
The road winds ever upward and the rocks themselves live
here!
The object is in a locked iron chest. If Strahd is there, he is at the
window, looking over his lands.
Jack CRYPT OF SERGEI VON ZAROVICH (K85)
It is in a place of tranquility, a harbor for the mighty and
powerful. It is in a place of wisdom, warmth, and despair.
Great secrets are there.
This lies with a fallen prince of old. The brother of dark is
light and lie rests in this place.
The object is lying across Sergei's chest. If Strahd is there, he is
lying across the marble slab, weeping.
Queen CRYPT OF RAVENOVIA (K88)
The object is on the mantlepiece, just under the portrait of the
woman. If Strahd is there, he is sitting back in the overstaffed
chair, staring into the blazing fire.
This is in the mother's place.
The object is lying on top of Ravenovia's coffin. If Strahd, is .
there, he is in a frenzy of rage and despair.

===== PAGE 6 =====
King KINGS AUDIENCE HALL (K25)
A king's throne is the place to find (his.
Ace
The object is lying across the dais behind the throne. If Strahd is
there, he is sitting on the throne.
CRYPT OF STRAHD (K86)
This is a very bad sign. This is in the very heart of dark-
ness: his home, his source. It is his center and his life. It is the
one place to which he must return.
The object is in a corner of the room. If Strahd is here, he is
within his coffin, ready to attack at the first sign of someone
opening the lid.
Table 2. Fortunes of Ravenloft:
Modifiers
Suit "To Hit" and Armor Class Modifiers
The PCs gain a +1 bonus to hit and a -i bonus to their AC.
There is a very good influence there. If you are there, the
powers of good will aid you.
Jack or
Queen
The PCs gain a +1 bonus to hit, but suffer a +1 penalty to
their AC.
The diamond blesses your skill there, but bodes poorly for
your protection.
Table 3. Fortunes of
Ravenloft: Strahd's Goals
Card
3 or 5
Strahd's Goal
Strahd seeks a new identity.
Not yet, but soon, one who appears to be your friend
will become your enemy.
Strahd will try to be alone with a charmed PC. When he is
alone with a (harmed PC, Strahd casts a polymorph other
spell on the PC, turning the PC; into a vampire. The spell
operates as detailed in the AD&D™ Players Handbook with
the following clarifications. The PC; takes the form of a
vampire and radiates a magical aura, regardless of whether
the PC; survives a system shock check or not. A PC; that
survives a system shock check has all of the abilities of a
vampire as detailed in the AD&D™ Monster Manual, regard-
less of whether that PC; passes a mental check or not. Undead
cannot drain levels from undead. Thus, if a polymorphed PC.
vampire retains his own mind, he and Strahd can light, but
neither can drain levels from the other. They can both, how-
ever, drain levels from non-undead. Alter tinning the PC; into a
vampire. Strahd casts a polymorph self and turns into the
likeness of the PC. Strahd puts the new vampire PC into his
own coffin and attempts to join the party, masquerading as the
PC. Strahd will try to persuade the party that he found a way
out of Barovia. Strahd can, after all, open the gates. Strahd
wants to move to another country using his new identity. The
gypsies will carry dirt from his crypt to his new home.
7 or 10 Strahd wants to make a magical sphere of darkness.
This card tells of a tool of evil. Darkness surrounds and
protects this tool, giving comfort to black hearts and pro-
tection from good.
Strahd is trying to assemble a magical item that casts a contin-
uous sphere of darkness. Such an item would greatly extend
the range of his travels. Over the centuries he gathered the
pieces of the sphere one by one, until now he is missing only
one piece, a black opal. Strahd mistakenly believes that one of
the PCs has a black opal stone. Strahd will use his natural
charm person abilities to charm lone PCs. Strahd will send
those charmed PCs back to the party, asking, "Do you have the
black opal?" When Strahd discovers that none of the PCs have
a black opal, he will attempt to destroy them.
Strahd wants to win the love of Ireena Kolyana.
The darkness loves a light and desires it. Great subtle plans
are in motion about you; plans that the dead may find
warmth from the living.
King or
Ace
Strahd will attempt to charm all of the PCs, and make them
attack Ireena. When they attack, Strahd will swoop down and
save her from the PCs. Strahd hopes that the rescue will turn
Ireena's heart to him. He wants Ireena to love him willingly
rather than by force.
Strahd wants the Sunsword.
The PCs suffer a -1 penalty to hit, but gain a -1 bonus to
their AC.
The club sustains your strength here, but holds you from
your victory, taking more time than it otherwise would.
Here is a high and noble card. One of you carries a weapon
that is stronger than any other against the evil in this land.
Only one part is missing from this weapon. That part is
found in the evil one's lair.
The PCs suffer a -1 penalty and a +1 penalty to their AC.
The spade is a dark shadow of evil cast over that place. You
fight under its influence here.
See Treasures and Tomes on p. 31 for details about the suns-
word. Strahd wants to destroy the sunsword. He believes (cor-
reclly) that one of the PCs (a random fighter) has has been
unknowingly carrying the sunsword lor some time. If the
sunsword hilt is found and reunited with the blade, Strahd
could be in real trouble.

===== PAGE 7 =====
Lands of Barovia
A perpetual rolling blackness of thunderclouds casts a gray pall
over the land. The darker silhouette of Castle Ravenloft looks over
the valley from its 1,000 foot pillar of rock.
Castle Ravenloft dominates the small village of Barovia. The
castle stands high atop a natural pillar of rock against the cliffs to
the north of the village. The dark Svalich woods surround the
village and cliffs. Use Map 1 to see the relative locations of the
town and Castle Ravenloft.
The road to the village and lands of Barovia goes through
ancient iron gates, controlled by the will of Count Strahd. There
are only two gates, one east of the village and one west of the castle
crossroads up the mountain. The gates open when the PCs arrive
but close after they enter Barovia. The gates will not open for the
PCs again until Strahd is destroyed.
There is a deathly stillness in the dark Barovian woods. Yet the
woods are patrolled constantly by the wolves and serving beasts of
Count Strahd.
No one has left Barovia for centuries. This is because of the
trapping fog that exists everywhere in Barovia. Once it is breathed,
it infuses itself around a character's vital organs as a neutralized
poison. The fog does not taste or smell any different than normal
fog. It does not harm characters as long as they continue to breathe
the air in Barovia. However, when they leave Barovia, the poison
becomes active. Characters must save vs. poison or start to choke.
Unless choking characters reenter Barovia within 24 hours, they
die. The choking stops as soon as they breathe the fog again.
The gypsies were given a potion by Strahd that cancels the
effects of the fog. This potion is jealously guarded by Madam Eva,
who buried it in a secret place. It is impossible for the PCs to
discover the potion. The fog is magically produced by Strahd and
disappears entirely upon his destruction.
The poor villagers of Barovia have been terrorized for centuries
by "the devil" Strahd. Only the town priest and the few survivors
of the second ruling house of Barovia have the will to offer more
than just personal resistance to Strahd. No villager has left Barovia
for centuries. Those who tried never returned, dying from the vile
snapping teeth of the Barovian wolves and the choking deadly fog.
Every 3 turns, check for a random encounter. When the PCs are
not in Castle Ravenloft, during daytime, use Table 4 at right,
during nighttime, use Table 5 at right. When the PCs are in Castle
Ravenloft, use Table 6 on p. 12.
Each night the PCs stay anywhere other than in the castle (Area
K), Strahd attacks with his wolves and bats. His attacks are
intended more to frighten the PCs than to damage them. Strahd
just toys with them. After 5 melee rounds, Strahd and his creatures
withdraw.
If the PCs are indoors, every turn Strahd attacks, wolves try to
break through a window or a door. A roll of 1 or 2 on 1d6 means
that a wolf breaks through. Once a wolf gets in, the remainder of
the wolves and bats come in. The wolves and Strahd never attack
Ireena Kolyana. After 5 melee rounds, all of the creatures flee into
the night, leaving only Strahd's hollow laughter in the distance.
4-16(4d4) worg wolves: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8;
AL NE.
10-100 (l0dl00) bats: AC 6; MV 4"/18"; HD 1d4; #AT 0; Dmg 0;
AL N.
The bats fly into the room, getting into the way of spell casting.
Characters must make dexterity checks to cast spells with material
components.
Strahd may knock at the door, but he cannot enter the building
until someone invites him in. Strahd tries to charm characters into
inviting him in.
Table 4. Barovia Daytime Random Encounters
(Sunup to Sundown)
Roll 1d6. If the result is a 1, the PCs encounter something. Roll 1d8
and use the encounter below with the resulting number.
Roll Encounter
1 2-8 (2d4) worg wolves: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; #AT 1; Dmg
2-8; AL NE.
2 1-10 gypsies: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL NE.
3 1-4 villagers: AC 9; MV 12"; HD 2; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; AL NG.
4 1-4 worg wolves: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8; AL
NE.
5 1-4 gypsies: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL NE.
6 1-4 villagers: AC 9; MV 12"; HD 2; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; AL NG.
Table 5. Barovia Nighttime Random Encounters
(Sundown to Dawn)
Roll 1d6. If the result is a 1 or 2, the PCs encounter something. Roll
1dl2 and use the encounter below with the resulting number.
Roll Encounter
1-2 l-10worgwolves:AC6;MV18";HD4+4;#ATl;Dmg2-8;AL
NE.
3 2-20 (2dlO) worg wolves: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; #AT 1; Dmg
2-8; AL NE.
4-5 3-12 (3d4) zombies: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL
N.
6-7 10-100(l0dl0) bats: AC6; MV4"/18"; HD 1d4; #AT0; Dmg 0;
AL N.
8 1 ghost: AC 0/8 if corporeal; MV 9"; HD 10; #AT 1; Dmg age
10-40 years; AL LE.
9 3-12 (3d4) ghouls: AC 6; MV 9"; HD 2; #AT 3; Dmg 1-3 / 1-3
/1-6; AL CE.
10 1-4 wights: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4+3; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; AL LE;
SA hit drains 1 energy level.
11 1-4 wraiths: AC 4; MV 12"/24"; HD 5+3; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; AL
LE; SA hit drains 1 energy level.
12 1 maiden vampire: AC 1; MV 12"/18"; HD 8+3; #AT 1; Dmg
5-10; AL CE; SA hit drains 2 energy levels, gaze can charm, can
become gaseous in same way as Strahd.

===== PAGE 8 =====
Lands of Barovia
Planned Encounters
The PCs start their adventure in an old inn, a few hours march east
of the gates of Barovia.
To a party of seasoned adventurers such as yourselves, this is
but another dull tavern in another dull town in some nameless
province. It is but another passage of time between the chal-
lenges of true adventuring. Such is the doldrum of existence
—waiting for another opportunity.
Outside the Inn, a fog lies over the town this evening,
draping everything in its clammy grasp. The damp cobbled
street shines as the light of street lanterns dances across the slick
stones. The cold fog chills the bones and shivers the soul of
anyone outside.
Yet inside these tavern walls the food is hearty and the ale is
warm and frothy. A fire blazes in the hearth and the tavern is
alive with the tumbling voices of country folk.
Suddenly, a hush falls over the tavern. Even the flagons of
ale seem to silence themselves. The tavern door swings open.
Framed by the lamp-lit fog, a form strides into the room. His
heavy, booted footfalls and the jingle of his coins shatter the
silence. His brightly colored clothes are draped in loose folds
about him and his hat hangs askew, hiding his eyes in shadows.
Without hesitation, he walks directly up to your table and
stands proudly in a wide stance with folded arms.
His accented voice speaks, "I have been sent to you to deliver
this message! If you be creatures of honor, you will come to my
master's aid at first light. It is not advisable to travel the Svalich
woods at night!" He pulls from his tunic a sealed letter,
addressed to all of you in beautiful flowing script. He drops the
letter on the table. "Take the west road from here some five
hours march down through the Svalich woods. There you will
find my master in Barovia."
Amid the continued silent stares of the patronage, the gypsy
strides to the bar and says to the wary barkeeper, "Fill the
glasses, one and all. Their throats are obviously parched." He
drops a purse heavy with gold on the bar. With that, he leaves.
The babble of tavern voices resumes, although somewhat
subdued. The letter is lying before you. Dated yesterday, the ink
is still not dry and the parchment is crisp. The seal is of a crest
you don't recognize.
If the PCs open the letter, read its contents from the following
boxed text.
Hail to thee of might and valor:
I, a lowly servant of the township of Barovia, send honor to
thee. We plead for thy so desperately needed assistance within
our community.
The love of my life, Ireena Kolyana, has been afflicted by an
evil so deadly that even the good people of our town cannot
protect her. She languishes from her wound and I would have
her saved from this menace.
There is much wealth in this community. I offer all that
might be had to thee and thy fellows if thou shah but answer my
desperate plea.
Come quickly for her time is at hand! All that I have shall be
thine!
Kolyan Indrirovich,
Burgomaster
Allow the PCs to make whatever preparations they feel are neces-
sary for the adventure. Use Map 1 for areas A-K.
A. The Old Svalich Road
Black pools of water stand like dark mirrors about the muddy
roadway. Thick, cold mists spread a pallor over the road. Giant
tree trunks stand on both sides of the road, their branches
clawing into the mists. In every direction the mists grow thicker
and the forest grows more oppressive.
It takes the PCs five hours to get to area B, traveling on the road.
B. The Gates of Barovia
Jutting from the impenetrable woods on both sides of the road,
high stone buttresses loom up gray in the fog. Huge iron gates
hang on the stonework. Dew clings with cold tenacity to the
rusted bars. Two statues of armed guardians silently flank the
gate. Their heads, missing from their shoulders, now lie among
the weeds at their feet. They greet you only with silence.
If the PCs approach within 50 feet, the gates open, screeching as
they move. The gates close behind the PCs after they pass through.
The gates will not open for the PCs from this side. Anyone
attempting to cross back over the border is choked by the fog. Once
the PCs enter, they must destroy the vampire or be trapped in
Barovia!
C. The Svalich Woods
Towering trees, whose tops are lost in heavy gray mist, block
out all save a death-gray light. The tree trunks almost touch.
The thick, damp undergrowth presses in on you, making it
impossible even to see one another at all times. The woods have
the silence of a forgotten grave, yet exude the feeling of an
unsounded scream.
Three turns after all the PCs enter the woods, they find a dead
villager in the underbrush. He holds an envelope crumpled in his
hand. The remains of his clothes are torn and raked with claw
marks. Paw prints of many large wolves are pressed into the clay
around the body. The man has obviously been dead for several
days.
The letter is dated one week ago. It is sealed with a large "B."
The parchment is worn and flimsy. It reads as follows:
Hail thee of might and valor:
I, the Burgomaster of Barovia send you honor — with
despair.
My adopted daughter, the fair Ireena, has been these past
nights bitten by a creature calling its race "vampyr." For over
400 years he has drained this land of the life-blood of its people.
Now, my dear Ireena languishes and dies from an unholy
wound caused by this vile beast. Yet I fear, too, that the creature
has some more cunning plan in mind. He has become too
powerful to be fought any longer.
Letter continues on next page.

===== PAGE 9 =====
So I say to you, give us up for dead and encircle this land
with the symbols of good. Let holy men call upon their power
that the evil one may be contained within the walls of weeping
Barovia. Leave our sorrows to our graves, and save the world
from this evil fate of ours.
There is much wealth entrapped in this community. Return
for your reward after we are all departed for a better life.
Kolyan Indirovich,
Burgomaster
Roll 1d6 every turn the PCs are in the woods. If the result is 4 or
more, the PCs hear a lone wolf cry in the distance. One more wolf
cries each round. If the PCs are still in the woods after 5 rounds of
howling, the wolves attack. If the PCs are entering Barovia, only 5
wolves attack; if the PCs are attempting to leave Barovia, 25 wolves
attack. The wolves stop their attack if the PCs leave the woods by
entering the village.
5 or 25 worg wolves: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 4+4; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8;
AL NE.
D. The River Ivlis
The river Ivlis flows as clear as a blue winter sky through the
valley.
E. The Village of Barovia
Tall shapes loom out of the dense fog that surrounds every-
thing. The muddy ground underfoot gives way to slick, wet
cobblestones. The tall shapes become recognizable as the dwel-
lings of the village of Barovia. The windows of each house stare
out from pools of black nothingness. No sound cuts the silence
except for a single mournful sobbing that echoes through the
streets from a distance.
The sobbing comes from location E3. With the exception of build-
ings El and E2, all of the shops are permanently closed. All of the
unoccupied stores and shops have been looted and ruined. Claw
marks cover most of the walls. There is no treasure to be found in
any of the unoccupied stores.
There is a 60% chance that there is someone at home in each
house. Characters listening at doors hear low, muffled whispers.
Each occupied house has one man in it. There is a 30% chance
that his wife is with him. There is a 10% chance that 1-8 children
are also in the house. The Barovians never attack first and always
flee if possible. At night they tend to cower and hold lawful good
holy symbols before them.
E1. Bildrath's Mercantile
The sparse light from this building spills out from behind
drawn heavy curtains. A sign over the door creaks on its hinges,
proclaiming this "Bildrath's Mercantile."
The building is about 70 feet long by 40 feet wide. Inside, Bildrath
is behind the counter. He will sell the PCs anything on the official
AD&D™ shopping list, except items found under "Religious
Items,""Livestock,'' and "Transport.'' Everything is ten times the
normal price. If the PCs give him any trouble, he calls Parriwim-
ple, his stock-boy, to help him straighten out the PCs.
Bildrath, Barovian merchant, F-4: AC 8; MV 12"; hp 30; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-8; AL LN; S 15, I 10, W 12, D 14, Con 11, Ch 13.
Bildrath trades with the gypsies when they pass through. He is not,
however, above making a profit from anyone else who is unlucky
enough to find themselves here. He serves himself. He certainly
promises no sanctuary. He never bargains a price since he believes,
"If you want it badly enough, you'll pay for it — because you
certainly won't be taking your business elsewhere."
Parriwimple, Barovian, F-9: AC 2; MV 12"; hp 50; #AT 1;
Dmg 5-12 (ld8+4); AL LN; S 18/80, I 3, W 9, D 17, Con 14,
Ch 8.
Parriwimple is Bildrath's stock boy. Parriwimple may occasion-
ally be asked by his uncle, Bildrath, to carry items out for the PCs
to look at. Parriwimple's muscles rippling beneath his leather
tunic should give ample warning to the PCs of his strength and
power. Parriwimple is extremely simple-minded, unlike Bildrath.
Parriwimple is dedicated to his uncle and will not follow the PCs.
In his own dim way he knows that to cross the master of the castle
is death—or worse.
E2. "Blood of the Vine" Tavern
A single shaft of light thrusts into the main square, its bright-
ness like a solid pillar in the heavy fog. Above the gaping
doorway, a sign hangs precariously askew proclaiming this the
"Blood on the Vine Tavern."
The tavern building is about 60 feet square. Close inspection of the
sign reveals that the sign originally read, "Blood of the Vine," but
the "F" has been scratched over with an "N." This once finely
appointed tavern has grown shoddy over the years. A blazing fire
in the hearth gives scant warmth to the few huddled souls within.
The silence here is broken only by the occasional sip of watery
wine. Arik, the barkeeper, is behind the bar. Three gypsies are at a
table on the left. Ismark sits mysteriously in shadows to the right.
Arik, Barovian barkeep, F-0: AC 8; MV 12"; hp 3; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4;
AL CN, S 9,I 4, W 7, D 13, Con 8, Ch 10.
Mindlessly, Arik cleans glasses, one after the other. When they are
all clean, he starts over. If spoken to, he takes orders for drinks in a
dull, hollow voice. After serving drinks, he returns to cleaning
glasses. Arik ignores all questions.
3 gypsies, F-4: AC 4; MV 12"; hp 32, 30, 24; #AT 1; Dmg 2-7 (1d6
+ 1); AL LN.
The gypsies lurk near the door. They own the tavern and see to it
that all customers pay their bills. These gypsies are otherwise
disinterested in the PCs.
Ismark the Lesser, Barovian, F-2: AC 7; MV 12"; hp 18; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-6 (longsword); AL LG; S 15,I 12, W 13, D 10, Con 16,
Ch 13.
Ismark sits in the corner sipping his wine. He speaks fair common
speech. Ismark is the son of the Burgomaster. To aid his adopted
sister, Ireena Kolyana, he greets the PCs and takes them to the
Burgomaster's home.
Ismark is as tight-lipped as any of the other Barovian villagers,
unless the subject deals with his adopted sister, Ireena Kolyana or
Strahd. Ismark knows everything the other villagers know.
Ismark also knows that for some unknown reason, Strahd is
attracted to Ismark's sister more than anything else. Ismark's
father, the Burgomaster, has been dead for over 10 days. The

===== PAGE 10 =====
great holy symbol that provided their strongest protection from
the vampire was stolen. Now, Ireena is unprotected and helpless in
the house.
If Ismark is shown the letter the PCs received at the start of the
adventure he confirms that the Burgomaster did attempt to send a
letter of warning. The PCs' letter, however, was certainly not
written by the Burgomaster. Ismark recognizes that the handwrit-
ing is not the Burgomaster's.
E3. Mad Mary's Townhouse
A moaning sob floats through the still, gray streets, coloring
your thoughts with sadness. The sounds flow from a dark,
two-story townhouse.
The house (about 40 feet square) is boarded up and barricaded
from the inside. Mad Mary sits in the middle of the floor of an
upstairs bedroom. She is lost in her sorrow and despondency. She
barely recognizes the presence of anyone in the room.
Mary hid her beloved daughter, Gertruda, in this house for the
girl's entire life. Gertruda broke out of the house and has not been
seen since. Her mother fears the worst.
Mad Mary, Barovian, F-0: AC 8; MV 9"; hp 1; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4;
AL CN; S 4, I 14, W 3, D 12, Con 14, Ch 11,
E4. Burgomaster's Home
A weary-looking mansion squats behind a rusting iron fence.
The iron gates are twisted and torn. The right gate lies cast
aside while the left swings crazily in the wind. The stuttering
squeal and clang of the gate repeats with mindless precision.
Weeds choke the grounds and press with menace upon the
house itself. Yet, against the walls, the growth has been trodden
under to form a path all about the domain. Heavy claw mark-
ings have stripped the once-beautiful finish of the walls. Great
black blottings tell of the fires that have assailed the walls. Not a
pane nor shard of glass stands in any window. All the windows
are barred with heavy planking, each plank marked with stains
of evil omen.
The mansion is approximately 120 feet long east to west and 50 feet
wide north to south. Ireena Kolyana is inside and will not open the
heavily barred door to anyone unless absolutely convinced that
those outside her door are of no allegiance to the Count. If the PCs
covince her (or if Ismark is with them), she will open the door and
invite them in. If the PCs enter, use the following boxed text.
The interior of the house is well furnished, although the fix-
tures show sign of considerable wear. Obvious oddities are the
boarded-up windows and the overuse of holy symbols in every
room. The Burgomaster is in a side drawing room — dead. He
is lying in a room that is dark, despite the candles burning in
his honor. The stench in the house is horrible.
Ireena will accompany the PCs. She has been bitten twice by the
vampire and can no longer be protected here. The townspeople are
afraid of her and avoid her. The PCs are her only hope for
protection.
Ireena is a sweet but troubled woman. Although she may at
first appear mild, she has a strong will and a good arm. By no
means a hapless victim, she will aid the party as best she can in
saving herself. Ireena does not remember her early past. She does
not know how she came to Barovia nor where she came from.
Ireena will inform the party that each night, wolves and other,
terrible creatures attack the house. The Burgomaster's heart could
not stand the constant assault and he died a natural death. Stran-
gely, since his death, the wolves have not attacked the house. The
Burgomaster has been dead for nearly 10 days, but no one from the
town has been brave enough to help Ismark take him out for
burial. As the Burgomaster has been dead for nearly a week, the
letter presented to the party in the tavern is certainly forged.
Ireena Kolyana, Barovian, F-4: AC 10; MV 12"; hp 6; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-4; AL LG; S 13, I 10, W 14, D 17, Ch 18,
E5. Guest House
The guest house is roughly 50 feet square. It is the guest house of
the Burgomaster's house, but it is not fortified against undead as
are most of the other buildings in town,
E6. The Church
Atop a slight rise, against the very roots of the castle's pillar-
stone, stands a gray, sagging edifice of stone and wood. This
church has weathered the assaults of evil for centuries on end
and is worn and weary. The bell tower hangs to one side, its
sweet tone long silenced. Flickering light shines through holes
burned through the roof shingles. The rafters strain feebly
against their load.
The church is 50 feet wide by 120 feet long. Its interior is a
shambles, with overturned and broken benches littering the dusty
floor. At a claw-scarred altar toward the far end is the priest.
Donavich, Barovian priest, C-2: AC 10; MV 10"; hp 10; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-4; AL LG; clerical spells; S 9,I 13, W 16, D 14, Con 14,
Ch 15.
The priest has been praying and chanting throughout the night.
His voice is hoarse and weak. His spells today are:
First Level: protection from evil, sanctuary, detect evil, remove fear
He spent this night, as every night, warding off evil from his
church. The priest knows the following.
Only nightly prayers have kept the church a place of cleanly
sacredness in Barovia.
There is a book in the library of Ravenloft that might be able to
help destroy the devil Strahd. It is well known from ancient times
that Strahd kept meticulous notes on all that he did or said.
Perhaps some weakness of his may be found there.
Ireena Kolyana was not the natural daughter of Kolyan Indiro-
vich. Although Ireena never knew, Old Kolyan found her one day
at the edge of the Svalich Woods near the Pillarstone of Ravenloft.
She was but a girl then and seemed to have no memory of her past.
Old Kolyan adopted her as though she were one of his own and
loved her dearly.
E7. Cemetery
During daytime, this is a quiet and peaceful place behind the
church. Every night at midnight, however, a ghostly procession
takes place. One hundred spirits rise from the graveyard and
march up the road to castle Ravenloft. They have no interest in the
living and cannot be hit, damaged, or turned. They will not
communicate with the PCs. At the castle, the spirits march straight

===== PAGE 11 =====
10

===== PAGE 12 =====
to the chapel (K15), up the high tower stair (K18) to the top of the
tower (K59). There, they throw themselves down the shaft toward
the crypts, where they disappear. These are the spirits of previous
adventurers who died trying to destroy Strahd. Every night they
attempt to complete their quest and each night they fail.
100 spirits: AC 0; MV 6"; HD 0; #AT 0; Dmg 0; AL CN.
F. Road Junction
Suddenly, the road splits into the forbidding Svalich woods.
The northern fork slants up slightly to the north while the
southern fork slants slightly downward. Dense fog obscures
your vision. A cold autumn wind whistles down the northern
lane, cutting icily through your clothing. Dead brown leaves
rush about. There is no sound other than the wind and leaves.
The northern fork leads to area G. The southern road goes to area
I.
G. Tser Pool Encampment
The canopy of mist and branches overhead suddenly gives way
to black clouds boiling far above. There is a clearing here. Dry,
brittle grass rustles in the biting wind. On the far side of the
clearing are several colorful wagons parked on the banks of a
pool. The mournful strains of an accordion mix meekly with
the moaning of the wind. Several brightly clad figures sur-
round a large, roaring fire. The road seems to pass close by this
camp.
There are 10 gypsies standing and sitting around the fire. If the
PCs approach the camp, they are asked to join in the singing
around the campfire. Whether they join the singing or not, one of
the gypsies tells them, "It was fated that you would visit this
humble camp. Madam Eva foretold your coming. She awaits
you." He leads the PCs into a large tent (area Gl). The gypsies
attack only if some act of hostility or insult is displayed within the
camp.
l0 gypsies, F-4: AC 6; MV 12"; hp43,34,32,31,29,27,25,18,16,13;
#AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL NE.
Gl. Madam Eva's Tent
Use the following boxed text only if the PCs enter the tent.
Within, all is dimly illuminated in pools of red light. A small,
low table stands across from the doorway, covered in a black
velvet cloth. Glints of light seem to flash from a crystal ball on
the table as a hunched figure peers into its depths. She speaks.
Her voice crackles like dry weeds. Her tone soars and falls like
the wind outside. "At last you have arrived!" Her sudden cac-
kling laughter bursts like mad lightning from her withered
lips.
This is Madam Eva. She speaks the name of each PC, and makes
some reference to a past deed of each PC. She asks the PCs if they
wish their fortunes to be read. If they agree she proceeds with the
sequence outlined in Fortunes of Ravenloft on p. 4. If the PCs
don't want a reading of their fates, continue play using the For-
tunes of Ravenloft results you generated before starting the game.
Madam Eva, gypsy, C-10: AC 10; MV 9"; hp 22; #AT 1; Dmg 1d4;
AL CN; clerical spells; S 15,I 10, W 17, D 15, Con 13, Ch 8.
Madam Eva can cast the following spells each day.
First Level: darkness, protection from evil, cause fear, command,
cure light wounds (X2)
Second Level: augury, chant, hold person, know alignment, speak
with animals, silence 15' radius
Third Level: glyph of warding, curse (X2), locate object
Fourth Level: cause serious wounds, detect lie, divination
Fifth Level: true seeing, raise dead
This old woman may seem crazed and mad to the PCs but she is, in
fact, quite cunning and sharp of mind. She is never fooled by
adventurers (she has seen a good many in her time) and is very
neutral. She serves Strahd as long as that benefits her and her
troupe. She never gives aid and never needs any.
H. Tser Falls
This is the bottom of the falls. There is nothing of any interest
here. A stone bridge can be seen nearly a thousand feet
overhead.
I. Carriage
Once again you continue down the fog-shrouded road, dead
leaves crackling along your track. The road splits in two. The
dirt road continues to the northwest while a wide road leads east
into the heart of the dense forest. Patches of cobblestone show
up through the east road, telling that it was once a great road.
To the right side of the fork stands a large carriage with two
horses. Both horses are black as pitch. The horses snort violent
puffs of steamy breath into the chill air. The carriage door
swings open silently.
2 horses: AC 7; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 8,8; #AT 3; Dmg 1-6/1-6/1-3;
AL N.
The two horses pull the carriage. They are under Strahd's control,
and wait until the PCs get into the carriage. There is plenty of
room in the carriage for all of the PCs. If the PCs get into the
carriage, the horses draw it down the road to area J. The horses
cannot be discouraged from their course.
J. The Gates of Ravenloft
After passing through the craggy peaks of the Balinoks, the
road takes a sudden turn to the east and the startling awesome
presence of Ravenloft itself towers before you. The carriage
comes to a stop just in front of twin guardhouses of turreted
stone, broken from years of use and exposure. Beyond these, a
50-foot-wide precipice gapes between the Balinok cliffs and the
walls of Ravenloft, a chasm of dizzying depth that disappears
into the fog-shrouded distance far below. The lowered draw-
bridge of old shorn-up wood beams hangs precariously between
you and the arched entrance to the courtyard. The chains of the
drawbridge creak in the wind, their rust-eaten iron straining
with the weight. From atop the high strong walls, stone gar-
goyles seem to stare at you from their hollow sockets and grin
hideously. A rotting wooden portcullis, green with growth,
hangs in the entry tunnel. Beyond this, the main doors of
11

===== PAGE 13 =====
Ravenloft stand open. A rich warm light spills from them into
the courtyard. Torches flutter sadly in sconces on both sides of
the open doors.
The drawbridge creaks and groans under any weight but is rela-
tively sturdy. Each time anyone except Strahd crosses the draw-
bridge, there is a 5% chance of a cross board breaking. If a cross
board breaks, the character on it must make a dexterity check or
fall to the bottom of the cliffs, 1,000 feet below.
A patch of green slime hangs over the entry tunnel. It turns
living flesh into green slime in 1-4 melee rounds and eats through
metal within 3 melee rounds. It can be scraped off quickly (if the
scraper is discarded), excised, frozen, or burned. A cure disease kills
green slime. The slime will not fall on characters entering the
castle.
1 green slime: AC 9; MV 0"; HD 2; hp 10; #AT 1; Dmg special;
AL N.
K. Castle Ravenloft
Use the following Castle Ravenloft section to adventure inside the
castle.
Castle Ravenloft
As the PCs enter the castle area, the weather worsens. Dismal rain
starts to fall, turning into a torrent within an hour.
Table 6. Castle Ravenloft Random Encounters
Roll 1d6. If the result is a 1 or 2, the PCs encounter something. Roll
1dl2 and use the encounter below with the resulting number.
Roll Encounter
1-2 10-100(10dlO)bats:AC6;MV4"/18";HD ld4;#ATO;Dmg 0;
AL N.
3 2-12 (2d6) wraiths: AC 4; MV 12"/24"; HD 5+3; #AT 1; Dmg
1-6; AL LE; SA hit drains 1 energy level.
4 1-10 Strahd zombies: AC 8; MV 9"; HD 4; #AT 1 per part; Dmg
1-8; AL N; SA hit of 5 or more points dismembers, dismem-
bered limbs attack; turn as mummies.
5 1-8 giant spiders: AC 4; MV 3"/*12"; HD 4+4; #AT 1; Dmg
2-8; AL CE; SA bite is poisonous.
6 1-4 angry villagers: AC 8; MV 12"; HD 2; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6; AL
NG. They are brandishing torches and pitchforks in a ridicu-
lous display of force. They are enraged. Everywhere they go,
they shout for justice. They follow the PCs unless prevented
from doing so. As long as these citizens are with the adventur-
ers, random encounters occur on a roll of 1, 2, 3, or 4.
7 2-16 (2d8) gargoyles: AC 5; MV 9"/15"; HD 4+4; #AT 4; Dmg
1-3 /1-3 / 1-6 / 1-4; AL N; SD +1 weapon or better required to
hit.
8 10-100 (l0dl0) bats: AC 6; MV 4"/18"; HD 1d4; #AT 0; Dmg 0;
AL N.
9 1-8 gypsies: AC 6; MV 12"; HD 6; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL NE.
10 2-16 (2d8) wights: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4+3; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4;
AL LE; SA hit drains 1 energy level.
11 Use Table 7.
12 Use Table 7.
Table 7. Castle Ravenloft Special Encounters
Roll 1d6. Use the encounter below with the resulting number.
1 1-4 vampires: AC 1; MV 12"/18"; HD 8+3; #AT 1; Dmg 5-10;
AL CE; SA hit drains 2 energy levels. These are old, hapless
victims of the Count.
2 1 groaning spirit: AC 0; MV 15"; HD 7; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL
CE. If the PCs have already defeated this spirit, roll again on
this table. During darkness, this spirit may keen. If she does,
everyone within hearing must save vs. deathray or die on the
spot. If the PCs have encountered her before, and she keened,
she cannot keen again.
3 1 -2 rust monsters: AC 2; MV 18"; HD 5; #AT 2; Dmg Nil; AL
N; SA hit rusts metal to dust. These monsters cannot damage
the sun sword.
4 1-6 spectres: AC 2; MV 15"/30"; HD 7+3; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL
LE; SA drains 2 life levels.
5 1 helpful spirit: AC 0; MV 15"/30"; HD 9+2; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6;
AL LG. Unless attacked, this spirit honestly answers one
question from the PCs. The answer must be 25 words or less.
After answering one question, or if it is attacked before ans-
wering, this spirit disappears.
6 Strahd von Zarovich: AC -1; MV 12"/18"; HD 10; hp 55; #AT
1; Dmg 5-10 (ld6+4); AL CE; SA hit drains 2 life levels, see p. 3
for other abilities.
Castle Ravenloft
Planned Encounters
Ravenloft Courtyard use Map 2 for K1 -K6.
K1. Front Courtyard
If the party has not entered the keep (any room, K7-K88) read the
following boxed description aloud to the players. The draw bridge
is down and the portcullis open. If the party has already entered
the keep, the drawbridge is up and the portcullis down.
Thick cold fog swirls around in this darkened courtyard. Spo-
radic flashes of lightning lance the angry clouds overhead.
Thunder pounds the courtyard. A light drizzle begins to fall.
Ahead, torch flames flutter in the wind on each side of the
keep's open main doors. Warm light spills from those open
doors into the courtyard. Doors in the gate towers on each side
of the tunnel entrance are shut against the rain. A howling
wind rushes through the courtyard. The dark towers of the keep
loom above in the mists. Flickering lights shine from a short
round tower on the south east side of the keep.
12

===== PAGE 14 =====
The open main doors to the keep lead to room K7. Tall stone walls
surround the courtyard.
The gate tower doors are locked. Characters who enter one of
the gate towers find themselves on a rock floor with a hollow tower
stretching skyward above them. The mechanism for raising and
lowering the drawbridge and portcullis fills both gate towers. The
latch mechanism in each gate tower is magically activated by a
word that only Strahd knows. Neither the drawbridge nor the
portcullis will move until both latches are activated (either by the
secret word, or by a dispell magic).
K2. Center Court Gate
A massive wall here joins the outer walls of the castle to the
keep. A single gate, 20 feet wide, leads through the joining wall.
The gate is blocked by a rusting portcullis.
The portcullis is unlocked and can be lifted open if characters
whose combined strength exceeds 10 points lift for 1 round. It is
easily held open, but falls back into place once let go.
K3. Servants Court
The small door into the keep can be opened as a normal dungeon
door. It leads to room K23.
K4. Carriage House
The double doors swing open to reveal a sleek, black carriage
fitted with glass walls and a polished wood roof.
K5. Chapel Garden
Behind the towering boarded windows at the back of the keep, a
small garden struggles to survive. Small flowers press sadly
skyward against the gloom.
A large iron gate leads to K6.
K6. Overlook
Dead leaves turn spirals about your feet, wheeling and careen-
ing over the stone railing. Dark, surging clouds overhead driz-
zle constantly. By looking over the edge of a low stone wall, you
see that you are on a construction jutting out at least 20 feet
from the cliff face. The gray dismal town of Barovia is 1,000 feet
below. A set of dirt-caked windows are set into the cliff face, 110
feet below the platform.
Characters who wish to try entering the windows must first reach
them. Getting to the windows requires finding some way to safely
drop 110 feet down and move 20 feet back under the platform.
Characters that fall plunge 1,000 feet to the rocky base of the
Pillarstone of Ravenloft.
Main Floor Use Map 3 for K7-K24.
K7. Entry
The ornate massive doors hang open. Fluttering torches cast
dim yellow flickers of light from the entry way. Twenty feet
into the castle, a second set of doors suddenly swings open
effortlessly and the sounds of organ music flow out. Overhead,
in the entryway, four statues of dragons glare down, their eyes
flickering in the torchlight.
If the PCs enter this room through the west doors, the dragons will
not attack. If anyone except Strahd enters this room through the
east doors, the dragons come alive, drop to the floor hissing and
spitting, and attack. These small dragons allow adventurers into
the castle, but not out of it. Whenever this room is empty, the
dragons return to their perches and turn to stone. The dragons
never leave this room.
4 red dragons: AC -1; MV 9"/24"; HD 9; hp 18, 18, 18, 18; #AT 3;
Dmg 1-8 / 1-8 / 3-30; AL CE.
K8. Great Entry
Use the following boxed description if the PCs are entering this
room for the first time.
Cobwebs hang from dust-covered columns of this great hall,
illuminated by torches fluttering in iron sconces. The dust and
webs cast strange, moving shadows across the faces of stone
gargoyles squatting motionlessly on the rim of the domed
ceiling. Cracked and faded ceiling frescoes are covered by cen-
turies of decay. Two doors of bronze stand closed to the east. To
the north, a wide staircase climbs into darkness. All the while,
sad and majestic organ tones float about you from a lit hallway
to the south.
After all the PCs leave this room, the gargoyles attack any PC that
returns to this room. The gargoyles also swoop down to fight if
they are attacked. When the gargoyles attack, the air turbulence
from their wings extinguishes the torches in the sconces.
8 gargoyles: AC 5; MV 9"/15"; HD 4+4; hp 31,27,26,23,22,18,12,
10; #AT 4; Dmg 1-3 / 1-3 / 1-6 / 1-4; AL CE.
K9. Guests' Hall
If the PCs are entering this hall for the first time, use the first boxed
description. If they have been here before, use the second boxed
description.
Torchlight flutters against the walls of this vaulted hall. To the
east, a dark and forbidding hallway runs into darkness. Beside
that opening, a suit of armor, oiled and glistening, stands at
attention in a shallow alcove. To the west, large double doors
hang slightly open, a steady bright light escaping through the
opening. Swells of organ music come from behind the doors,
spilling their melody of power and defeat into the hall.
The hallway lies in darkness. Double doors open to the west.
To the east, a single arched corridor of stone masonry is lit by
light from the circular stairs now visible some 20 feet away. The
light is coming from up the staircase. The staircase also des-
cends into a terrible darkness. Standing beside the archway to
the stairs, a suit of armor stands in a shallow alcove, a dark
shadow falling across its faceplate.
The armor described is just a normal suit of plate mail that is well
cared for. There is a 40% chance that it will fit any human party
member.
K10. Dining Hall
If this is the first time the party has been here, use the first boxed
description. If the party has been here before, use the second boxed
description.
13

===== PAGE 15 =====
This is a magnificent 40-foot-square room, brilliantly lit by
three massive crystal chandeliers. Pillars of stone stand against
dull white marble walls, supporting the ceiling. In the center of
the room, a long, heavy table stands covered with a fine white
satin cloth. The table is laden with delectable foods of every
type: roasted beast basted in a savory sauce, roots and herbs of
every taste, and sweet fruits and vegetables. Places are set for
each of you with fine delicate china and silver. At each place
there is a crystal goblet filled with an amber liquid whose
delicate fragrance tantalizes your senses. At the center of the far
west wall, between floor-to-ceiling length mirrors, stands a
massive organ. Its pipes blare out a thunderous melody that
offers in its tone greatness and despair. Seated before the keys,
its back toward you, a single caped figure pounds the keys in
raptured ecstasy. The figure suddenly stops and a deep silence
falls over the dining hall. The figure slowly turns toward you.
K13. Turret Post Access Hall
The first time the PCs enter this room, the figure at the organ
welcomes them and invites them to dine. The figure is an illusion
of Strahd, created with the mirrors in the room. Strahd himself is
elsewhere. The figure can be seen in the mirrors. The figure
converses with the PCs for 3 rounds, never moving from the organ
bench. When the 3 rounds are over, or if the illusion is attacked, it
simply disappears with a mocking laugh.
The moment the figure disappears, a fierce, bone-chilling
wind rises up and roars through the hall, putting out all non-
magical lights. The PCs hear the screech of ancient hinges and the
solid thud of many heavy doors slamming shut, one after another,
into the distance. They also hear the portcullis clang shut, and the
tired groan of the aged drawbridge pulling up. After you describe
those sounds, use the following boxed description.
The vast room is dark. A wind whistles through its confines.
Crystal sings in the darkness as the great chandeliers rustle in
the wind. The fragrance of food wafts its way through the
darkened hall.
Behind the organ is a secret door to Kl 1.
K11. South Ground Archers' Post
A single arched corridor leads to the south. There are several
mirrors in this room. A tall, dark figure in a flowing cape floats
in the middle of the room. Old archers' slits in the north and
west walls are bricked up.
This is the room from where the illusionary figure of Strahd in
K10 is worked. The floating figure is actually a mannequin sus-
pended by black cords from the ceiling.
K12. Turret Post
A high domed ceiling caps the 30-foot-diameter room before
you. Frescos, faded with age adorn the ceiling, but are impossi-
ble to make out. Tall, thin arrow slits look out over the
courtyard.
The arrow slits are 2 ½ feet tall and 4 inches wide.
This long, narrow corridor runs east and west. Cobwebs fill the
hall and obstruct sight beyond a few feet.
K1 4. Hall of Faith
This long, dusty hall leads eastward into the dark heart of
Ravenloft. Statues line the hallway on both sides, their eyes
seeming to watch you as you pass.
The statues are harmless. Their following eyes are a simple optical
illusion.
K15. Chapel of Ravenloft
Dim, colored light filters through broken and boarded up stain
glass windows, illuminating the ancient chapel of Ravenloft.
Pews and benches lie about the floor in jumbled disarray,
coated with centuries of dust. Beyond this debris, lit by a single,
piercing shaft of light, an altar stands upon the platform. The
light falls directly on a small statue. A figure is draped over the
altar. This room seems as though nothing has disturbed it in
centuries, and that nothing ever could.
The small statue is the Icon of Ravenloft. The figure is all that
remains of a mighty evil cleric who attempted to obtain the Icon of
Ravenloft. Check your Fortunes of Ravenloft results for a possible
encounter and other treasure in this room.
The Icon of Ravenloft is a holy artifact of tremendous lawful
good power. The artifact adds a +4 bonus to turn any undead and
heals 6-21 (3d6+3) hit points once per day when used by a cleric of
good alignment. The icon is a small carving of the purest silver. It
is 12 inches tall and 6 inches across.
The ceiling in this room and the balcony over the west wall
cannot be seen from the floor without extra torches. If the PCs
brighten the room, they see the figures sitting on the balcony in
room K28.
K16. North Chapel Alcoves
This arched room opens into a vast chamber to the east, and a
rising staircase to the west. Alcoves in the north and south walls
open into this room. Within the dark confines of the alcoves
lurk 8-foot-tall shadowy figures. Their stone forms show
mighty muscled arms and legs. A black shadow falls across the
features of their faces.
The statues are harmless. The stairway is K29 and the vast chamber
is the chapel, K15.
K17. South Chapel Alcoves
This arched room opens into a vast chamber to the east, and a
huge circular staircase to the west. There are alcoves in the
north and south walls of this room. Eight-foot-tall shadowy
figures lurk in the cold, dark confines of both alcoves. The
figures' muscular stone arms hold bright blades. Black shadows
fall across the features of their face.
The statues are harmless. The staircase is K18.
14

===== PAGE 16 =====
15

===== PAGE 17 =====
K18. High Tower Staircase
The large gray flagstones of this spiraling staircase lead up and
down around a 20-foot-wide stone core. Cobwebs fill the stair-
case, making it difficult to see even the ceiling. Heavy beams
sag overhead from centuries of weight.
The staircase starts at K84 and spirals upward around a central
shaft to just below K17. A small crack in the outer stairway wall
leads to K63. Just below K17, a solid masonry wall completely
blocks the staircase. A small chink in the masonry wall allows gas
to pass from one side of this wall to the other. Once past this wall,
the staircase continues up past K17 300 feet to K59. The shaft that
these stairs surround, K18a, runs vertically from K84 to K59 with-
out any holes or obstructions. There is a solid wall between the
staircase and the shaft.
K18a. High Tower Shaft
A dark stone shaft stretches out before you farther than you can
see. Rushing wind sways the cobwebs that fill the shaft.
This shaft starts at K84 and rises straight up through the keep to
K59. A solid wall separates this shaft from the staircase around it,
K18. The shaft is 390 feet tall. Wind blows up the shaft. Anyone
falling down the shaft from K59 takes 20d6 points of damage.
K19. Grand Landing
Massive stairs rise to a landing 20 feet wide by 40 feet long.
Stone arches support a ceiling covered with frescos, 20 feet
overhead. The frescos faded lines depict the stone mountain
atop which Ravenloft stands, being taken by armored forces on
horseback. The faces of the characters in the fresco are scratched
beyond recognition. Dust floats in the air here, making it
difficult to see details. There is a staircase on each side of the
20-foot-wide south wall. There are two alcoves between the
staircases. Light filtering through the dust shows two suits of
armor covered with dark stains, one standing in each alcove.
Each suit of armor holds a mace designed like a curved dragon
head. Engraved words on the arches above the alcoves are
scratched out.
Both staircases lead to K25. The massive stairs lead down to K8.
Anyone crossing in front of the alcoves activates the suits of armor.
The suits of armor are rigged to a mechanical device activated
by pressure plates in front of the alcoves. There is a 60% chance that
any weight over 400 gp (40 pounds) activates the trap. When
activated, one of the suits springs forward, flailing its arms and
mace. It hits and does 1-4 points of damage if it rolls 16+ on 1d20.
After leaping out it retracts, only to leap again if weight is still on
the plate. The device is purely mechanical and acts very much like
a puppet. This little joke is intended to spook more than damage.
K20. Tower Hall of Honor
A mosaic floor stretches about into the darkness. A vast, empty
tower rises above you. You cannot see more than a few yards up,
yet you feel the tower's cold expanse pressing down on you. A
spiral staircase rises slowly into the darkness circling the open
shaft. In the center of the room, another set of stairs leads down.
The staircase in the center of the floor leads down to hall K71. If the
characters step onto the spiral staircase, they awaken the Guardian
of Sorrow who will be active for 12 hours. The spiral staircase
starts on Map 3, goes up past K13 on Map 4, past K46 on Map 5 to
K60 on Map 9.The Guardian of Sorrow is this tower; this tower, including the
spiral staircase, is alive! The Guardian's heart hangs at the top of
the tower. There are 10 halberds mounted on the tower walls along
the spiral staircase. The Guardian uses the halberds to attack the
characters. The tower itself shakes and pitches, causing all charac-
ters on the stairs to make a dexterity check every round or fall from
the staircase to the floor below. Characters may crawl up the stairs
at ¼ their movement rate without having to make dexterity checks.
Only blows to the pulsing heart overhead can damage the
Guardian.
The Gardian of Sorrow: AC 8; MV 0"; HD 3; hp 10; #AT 6; Dmg
1-10; AL NE.
Use the following boxed description if the PCs awaken the Guard-
ian of Sorrow.
As you step onto the huge staircase, a reddish light flares to life
high overhead, settling into a dull, pulsing red glow. You now
see the full immensity of this tower. The spiral staircase circles
up the tower's full height of 240 feet. At the domed pinnacle of
the hollow tower, a pulsing red glass heart beats with light. The
10-foot-wide stairs that circle up the tower end at a door far
overhead. The hollow tower is about 60 feet in diameter at its
base, narrowing toward the top. Fallen boulders and arrows are
strewn across the floor.
K20a. Tower Hall Stair
This stairway leads from K71 to K.20.
K21. South Tower Stair
This stairway is lit by fluttering torches in iron sconces. A
chilly wind rushes down the circling stairway, seeming to kill
the very heat of the torches.
These stairs start at K73 and go up through K61, K9, K30, and K35
to K47.
K22. Archers' Post
This is where archers used to defend the keep. The castle court-
yard is visible through narrow archers' slits that line the walls.
The slits are 2½ feet tall and 4 inches wide.
K23. Servants' Entrance
Dim light filters in through dust-caked windows in the east
wall. A large, heavy table sits in the center of the room coated
with dust. A thick book lies open on the desk top with an
inkwell and quill next to it. There is a broken door in the north
wall. A staircase drops into total darkness in the south wall. On
each side of the staircase, a skeleton in bright armor stands
sagging at attention holding a rusty halberd. There is a door in
the east wall next to the windows.
16

===== PAGE 18 =====
The skeletons are hanging on pegs and pose no threat to the party.
The staircase drops to K62.
The ancient book is weathered and brittle, but the ink in the
well is fresh. At the top of each page is scribed, "Please register for
your own convenience and that of your next of kin." The book is
over half-filled with names. All of the names are illegible.
K24. Servants' Quarters
K28. King's Worship Place
Broken furniture and torn cloth are strewn about this 20-by-40-
foot room. Dim illumination comes from the dirt-caked win-
dows in the east and north walls. A rickety staircase climbs up
to a second level.
The stairs climb to K34.
Court Of the Count Use Map 4 for K25-K34.
K25. Audience Hall
Dim light from the courtyard falls into this room in jagged
shafts through the broken glass and iron frames of a large
window in the west wall. This immense room stands in chilly,
brooding darkness. Hundreds of dust-thick cobwebs drape the
room, hiding the ceiling from view. Directly across from the
window are double doors in the east wall. Ornate door carvings
are obscured by a thick layer of dust. Further south, a single
door also leads from the east wall. At the far southern end of the
hall, a huge throne stands atop a raised platform. The back of
the throne is turned to the room. Staircases at both ends of the
north wall lead down.
A small dais stands south of the throne. A secret door in the south
wall leads to K13. The staircases in the north wall go down to K19.
Check your Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure or
encounters here.
K26. Guard's Post
Massive double doors open into this quiet 10-foot-wide section
of dark corridor from the east and west. From both sides of the
corridor, deep alcoves of darkness face each other with death-
like silence. Almost beyond sight, seeming to float within the
alcoves' blackness, human figures can be made out.
The two figures are skeletons that were hung here long ago, each
held up by a spear stuck through it into the wall behind it. The
skeletons are harmless, even though they are both holding spears.
A secret door in the back of the north alcove leads to K33.
K27. Hall of Grace
This 20-foot-wide hall has a dark vaulted ceiling. Shadows
seem to dance across the distant ceiling. A low moan rises and
falls the length of the corridor, intoning sadness and despair.
The shadows are from the characters' flickering torches. The
moaning is only the wind. Halfway down the hall on the south
side there is a secret door that leads to room K31.
This long balcony overlooks a vast rubble-strewn room. Two
large, ornate thrones stand in the middle of the balcony that is
covered with dust. The thrones face away from the brass-
banded double doors that lead to the balcony. The thrones
could easily shield someone sitting in them from anyone
behind them.
Two Strahd zombies are sitting in the thrones. They attack if any
member of the party looks around the edge of the thrones. Other-
wise, they remain still.
2 Strahd zombies: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 4; hp 12, 10; #AT variable;
Dmg 1-6; AL NE; single hit of 5 points or more dismembers,
dismembered limbs attack; turn as mummies.
K29. Creaking Landing
A staircase of old wood climbs shakily up a stonework shaft.
With each step upon it, the wood strains underfoot, creaking
and groaning.
This staircase climbs from K16 to K28. It may seem unstable but is,
in fact, quite sturdy.
K30. Office of the King's Accountant
Dusty scrolls and tomes line the walls of this room and are
scattered across the floor. In the center of all this clutter stands a
huge accountant's desk. A figure crouches atop a tall stool,
scratching a seemingly endless scroll of paper with a dry quill
pen. A rope hangs next to the creature from a hole in the
ceiling.
The figure is Lief Lipsiege, an accountant. He is chained to the
desk and has no interest in the PCs or their concerns. Under no
circumstances will he voluntarily leave this room. Lief will pull
the rope whenever he feels threatened.
Lief Lipsiege, human accountant, F-0: AC 10; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 5;
#AT 1; Dmg 1-4; AL CE.
Lief was pressed into service by Strahd ages ago. Lief keeps all the
books for Strahd, recording his riches and conquests. Lief has been
here longer than he can remember. He is grumpy because the
Count does not allow him to know about all of the treasures. Still,
Lief found out where one of the treasures lies. Lief will, if treated
with kindness, tell the PCs the exact location of the Holy Symbol
of Ravenkind (See Treasures and Tomes for a description of this
symbol. Then check your Fortunes of Ravenloft results for where
the symbol is.) Lipseige will draw a crude map of how to get to the
symbol. His map should be geographically accurate, but must not
avoid any of the traps or other dangers that may lie in the way. Lief
will not necessarily know the most direct route to the symbol.
If the rope is pulled, a tremendously loud gong sounds. Within
1-10 minutes, a monster from Table 6 appears and attacks the PCs.
Treat the monster as a normal random encounter.
Scattered about the room under the papers are 20,000 cp; 1000
gp; 500 pp; and 100 reference books on accounting procedures
worth 10 gp each.
17

===== PAGE 19 =====
K31. Trap works K34. Servants' Upper Floor
The aroma of grease and well-oiled wood fills your nostrils as
you enter the room. The entire room is filled with intricate
machinery. There are small passages between the gears and
pulleys. Behind all the machinery, a cold shaft rises up from the
darkness and continues past the room.
This machinery raises a stone compartment from K61 past this
room, K31, and K31b, to K47. The stone compartment moves up
and down in a shaft, K31a. The bottom of the shaft is 90 feet from
here.
There is a 40% chance that any character who tries to activate
the mechanism can do so. If activated, all of the gears, ropes and
pulleys move at once. Well cared for, the device operates relatively
quietly. When the trap is moving, a 10-foot-wide stone compart-
ment rises past K31. There is a secret door in the top of the
compartment. Anyone riding on the roof of the compartment
while it goes up the shaft will be crushed against the top of the
shaft within one round, taking 3-30 (3dlO) points of damage.
K31a. Trap Shaft
This deep shaft smells of well-oiled wood. There is a large
wooden screw along the east wall, and another along the west
wall.
The shaft is 230 feet from top to bottom. When the trap is in
motion, the screws turn, raising a stone compartment from K61
past K31 and 31b through a trap door to K47.
K31b. Trap Access
This is a narrow, 10-foot-long corridor between the shaft, K31a,
and a secret door leading to K39. The bottom of the shaft is 130 feet
from here.
K32. Maid's Hall
Stained, yellowed lace hangs neatly from eight canopied beds.
The single lithe figure of a woman moves about the room,
dusting the furniture.
The maid, Helga, is a vampire who will attack the PCs only when
an opportunity to do so without having to fight the entire party
presents itself. She also attacks if commanded to do so by Strahd.
Helga, vampire: AC 1; MV 12"/18"; HD 8+3; hp 36; #AT 1; Dmg
5-10 (ld6+4) + drain 2 levels; AL CE; SD +1 weapons or better
needed to hit her.
Helga will join the party, if asked to. She claims to be the daughter
of a villager, cruelly forced into service of the Strahd. She will
plead on her hands and knees, if necessary, to be saved from this
awful place. She will play the part of the innocent female to the
last, only revealing her ferocity as a vampire when she attacks. She
is, in fact, the daughter of one of the townspeople but she chose a
life of evil with Strahd.
K33. King's Apartment Stair
This hall and staircase lead up to K45 from K26 and K32.
The floor sags in the middle of this room. Dirt-caked windows
allow little light through from outside. Broken bedframes litter
the floor.
A secret door on the west end of the south wall leads to a ladder.
The ladder leads up 20 feet to secret door into the stairway, K20.
The stairway guardian activates as soon as the PCs step through
the secret door onto the staircase.
Rooms Of Weeping Use Map 5 for K35 - K46.
K35. Facing Guardians
A door of delicately engraved steel stands at the west end of this
dark hallway. Intricate details still stand out clearly on the
door's surface. The door seems to almost shine with a light of its
own, untouched by time. Yet, on each side of this door there is
an alcove filled with a darkness that shames the night. A figure
stands like a shadow within each alcove, still as the cliffs of
Balinok.
The figures are wraiths that attack anyone attempting to move
through this hall.
2 wraiths: AC 4; MV 12"/24"; HD 5+3; hp 22,20; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8 +
drain 1 level; AL LE.
K36. Dining Hall of the Count
Dust fills your lungs. The musty smell of death and decay swirls
around you. Before you, a long table of polished oak lies
beneath a blanket of dust. The rotting table cloth lies tattered
beneath dusty china plates and stained silverware. In the center
of the table, a large, tiered cake leans heavily to one side. The
once white frosting has turned green with age. Cobwebs drape
like dusty lace down every side. A single doll figure of a well-
dressed woman adorns the crest of the cake under thick layers of
dust. A window in the south wall is draped with heavy curtains.
This room has wooden doors in the north and west walls, and an
ornate steel door in the east wall. The toy figure of the groom from
the top of the cake was cast on the floor; the PCs can find it if they
search through the dust on the floor.
K37. Study
A blazing hearth fire fills this room with rolling waves of red
and amber light. The walls are lined with ancient books and
tomes, their leather covers well oiled and preserved through
careful use. All is in order here. The stone floor is hidden
beneath a luxurious rug of a deep-patterned weave. A large, low
table sits in the center of the room, waxed and polished to a
mirrored finish. Even the poker next to the blazing fireplace is
polished. Large, overstuffed divans and couches stand in order
about the room. Two luxurious chairs face the hearth. A huge
painting hangs over the mantlepiece in a heavy, gilded frame.
The rolling light of the fire illuminates the carefully rendered
painting. It is an exact likeness of the Burgomaster's daughter,
Ireena Kolyana. Though the painting is obviously centuries
old, the likeness is unmistakable.
18

===== PAGE 20 =====
There are two separate doors in the north wall. Another door is in
the south wall and a set of double doors in the west wall. A secret
door behind the fireplace is opened by lifting the poker from its
stand. Remember that characters must put the fire out before
passing through the fireplace, or take 1-6 points of damage for
each round that they stand within the blazing hearth. Check your
Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure and encounters
here.
K38. False Treasury
K41. Treasury
This smoky room lies behind the fireplace. Glinting through
the smoke, gold, silver, and copper coins lie scattered around a
closed chest. The fittings on the chest tell of great workman-
ship. Attached to the east wall are two torch sconces. The
southernmost sconce holds a torch with an intricate metal base.
The other is empty. A skeleton of a man lies against the wall in
broken plate armor. His right hand is on his throat while his
left hand holds the matching torch from the empty sconce.
There are 50 gp, 100 sp, and 2,000 cp scattered around the trap-
rigged chest. The chest is unlocked. It opens easily, sending out a
sleeping gas that makes characters unconscious for 1-4 hours. To
avoid the sleeping gas, characters must make a saving throw vs.
poison with a penalty of -4. If all the characters fall asleep, they all
awaken unharmed in room K50, 4 hours later. If any of the charac-
ters remain awake, nothing further takes place as a result of this
trap.
If the torch is taken from the dead man's hand and placed back
into the empty sconce, the secret door on the north side of the east
wall opens, leading to room K39. Taking the torch from the sconce
at any time reverses the process. A good tactic for any wandering
monster that encounters the characters in K39 is to remove the
torch here in K38, effectively trapping the characters in K39.
K39. Hall of Riches
This ancient hall is choked with spider webs. Their dusty forms
hide the very walls and ceiling. The webs are broken by a single
cleared path down the center of the room.
This hall ends at a pair of bronze doors of highly ornate design.
These doors lead to K40. Remember that the mechanism for open-
ing the secret door to K38 can only be actuated from K38. Behind
the cobwebs against the south wall, a secret door leads to K31b.
K40. Belfry
Dusty cobwebs fill the area, their musty smell assaulting your
senses and obscuring sight. Deep pools of darkness lie all about
you as you attempt in vain to penetrate the spidery veils. A
single path leads to the center of the room where a rope dangles
from high above.
The rope is attached to a bell 50 feet overhead. Pulling or attempt-
ing to climb the rope sounds a loud, long "GONG." That sound
causes five giant spiders to drop from their webs and attack. The
spiders only attack if they are attacked or if the gong is sounded.
Behind the cobwebs on the west side of the north wall there is a
secret door that leads to K41.
5 giant spiders: AC 4; MV 3"/*12"; HD 4+4; hp 24, 22, 22, 17, 12;
#AT 1; Dmg 2-8 (2d4) + poison; AL CE.
The plundered riches of Strahd's secret horde lie before you.
The following treasures are in this room: 50,000 cp; 10,000 sp;
10,000 gp; 1,000 pp; 15 100 gp gems; 10 1,000 gp jewels; a magical
(glowing) sword (+2); and three maces (each +3). Check your
Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure and encounters
here.
K42. Bedchamber
Sweet smells waft from this delicately lit room. Windows on the
west wall are covered by heavy red draperies, hanging stiffly
from the high ceiling 20 feet overhead. Their tassels of golden
fiber glint in the light of three candelabras sitting atop small
tables about the room. Tall white candles burn with bright,
steady light. A large bed, canopied by silken curtains, sits with
its headboard against the north wall. Lying amid the velvet and
satin sheets and bedclothes is a woman in a nightcoat. One of
her dainty slippers has fallen to the floor at the foot of the bed.
Carved into the headboard with great skill and care is a large
"Z."
Double doors lead from this room to the south and east. The figure
in the bed is Gertruda, the daughter of Mad Mary. Gertruda is
oblivious to any danger to herself—especially from Strahd. Shel-
tered by her mother all of her life, Gertruda is innocent and
believes only in a rather fairytale view of life. When faced with
a decision, Gertruda almost always makes the most simplistic
choice. She is naive to the point of being a danger to herself and
others. Fortunately, Strahd has not yet bitten her. He is intent on
his current plot and is saving her for later.
Gertruda, Barovian, F-0: AC 10; MV 12"; hp 4; #AT 1; Dmg 1-4; AL
NG, S 8,1 8, W 4, D 16, Con 13, Ch 16.
K43. Bath Chamber
In the center of this room stands a large, ornate iron tub.
K44. Closet
Within this room hang 28 capes and an assortment of black
formal wear. Two windows in the south wall are covered with
heavy curtains.
K45. Hall of Heroes
Long, low moans drift down from alcoves that line both walls
of this long hall. The ceiling has fallen here, leaving rubble
strewn across the floor. Overhead, the beams of Ravenloft's roof
are exposed. Sporadic lightning from the clouds above flashes
into this hall. A graven statue stands within each of the 10
alcoves. Shafts of light cross the statues' faces at obscure angles.
Another sudden flash and crack of lightning reveals their faces
formed in the shapes of terrified men and women.
The statues are imbued with the spirits of long-lost ancestors of
Ravenloft who grieve at the loss of Ravenloft's former glory. Each
spirit (one in each of the 10 statues) will answer one question for
the PCs if asked directly. The spirits' answers should be short and
vague. There is a 20% chance that each spirit's answer is wrong.
19

===== PAGE 21 =====


===== PAGE 22 =====
K46. Courtyard Overlook
This is a wide walkway around most of the keep. The drizzle of
rain continues. Far below these parapets are the shining wet
cobblestones of the courtyard.
This walkway runs around the front of the upper portion of the
keep. To the north and south, a walkway runs along the top of a
wall (over K2) to the outer wall of the castle. See Map 2 for the
length and location of the castle walls. All of the windows leading
from K46 into the keep are shut and locked, but can easily be
broken.
Spires Of Ravenloft Use Map 6 for K47-K53.
K47. The Landing
A landing of flagstone 10 feet wide by 20 feet long wobbles
slightly underfoot. The chill draft of wind whistles mournfully
through the room, rushing down from the circular stairs on the
north end of the east wall. Pausing only for a single round
through the landing, the wind continues down the stairs on the
south. A single doorway with a heavy plank and metal-banded
door opens to the west. Beside this door, an ancient portrait
stands watch over the area, its still eyes staring defiantly back at
your own.
There is a base 10% chance that each member of the party sees the
eyes in the portrait shift to look at him. The portrait attacks the
PCs only if they attack it or if they try to enter this room through
the door in the west wall. A trap door in the floor leads to K31a.
The portrait attacks with its spells. The portrait's material
spell components are built into its frame. The portrait tries to hold
characters in front of it until Strahd commands it to release them.
When the frame is destroyed the painting loses all its power.
The Guardian Portrait: AC 8; MV 0"; HD 5; hp 15; #AT 1; Dmg 1-6
+ levitate and hypnotic pattern; AL CE.
K48. Offstair
This dusty spiraling staircase climbs up into the tower.
This stairway rises from K47, past K54, to K57.
K49. Lounge
A low ceiling, supported by heavy beams, seems to press down
on this room. The west wall curves with the tower and is fitted
with three windows of leaded glass in steel latticework. Plush
overstuffed chairs and couches are placed about the room.
Their fabric has faded with age until the prints are nearly gone.
A bookcase lines the east wall between two doors.
The books are of no real help to the party. Some of the titles found
on the bookshelf are: "Embalming, The Lost Art," "Life Among
the Undead: Learning to Cope," "Identifying Blood Types: A
Beginners' Handbook," and "Masonry and Woodworking."
K50. Guestroom
A huge bed sits in the center of this room, its four corner posts
rising to a black canopy trimmed with gold tassels. Several
comfortable divans are placed about the room. There is a
banded door in the west wall and a smaller unhanded door in
the east wall.
There is no danger in this area during the day. However, during
the night, the witches from K56 come through the east door (after
attacking with a sleep spell) and take a member of the party, an
NPC if possible, back to their lair at K56.
K51. Closet
This small, empty 10-foot-square room is lined with pegs to
hang of cloaks and clothes on.
There is a secret trap door in the ceiling through which the witches
come to attack the party at night.
K52. Smokestack
Jutting from the steeply sloping rooftop of the castle, a spindly
smokestack, 5 feet wide at the top, rises 30 feet from the peak of
the roof, belching smoke from its iron-pronged capstone.
The chimney leads down 60 feet to the blazing fireplace in K37.
The smoke and fire in the chimney causes 1 -6 points of damage per
round spent in the chimney. Characters take normal fire damage
of 1-6 within the blaze below.
K53. Rooftop
The sagging rooftop of the keep slopes precipitously toward
the courtyard some 100 feet below. The ancient roof tiles slide
easily underfoot, gladly giving up their burden and dropping
into the fog shrouded distance below. Each falling tile resounds
with a hollow click as it hits the flagstones of the courtyard.
There is a base 30% chance per round that anyone attempting to
traverse this roof will start to fall toward the edge. Characters must
make dexterity checks to catch themselves. Normal damage from
the fall is 10-60 (10d6) points for those who fall and fail their
dexterity check. Thieves can use their climb walls ability here, but
with a 10% penalty. The roof hangs out over K46.
K54. Familiar Room Use Map 7 for K54-K56.
As you enter this room, an evil essence embraces you. Torn and
broken couches lie in heaps, haphazardly strewn about the
20-foot-square room. The low ceiling seems to press down
upon you. Deep claw marks cover the hardwood furniture.
Claw marks have also sliced the once lush upholstery to shreds.
From the dark shadows amid the rubble, three pairs of green
eyes stare back at you.
3 black cat familiars: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 4, 2, 1; #AT 2;
Dmg 1-4; AL CE.
These are the cat familiars of the witches in K56. If the familiars see
the PCs here, the witches are alerted to their presence.
K55. Element Room
This is a large oppressive room with a low ceiling of heavy
beams. This room is lit only by the dim light of two leaded glass
21

===== PAGE 23 =====
windows in the south wall. Steel lattice work covers both win-
dows. Several tables stand throughout the room, their legs
seeming to barely support the glass jars and bottles that sit atop
them.
K58. Bridge
There is a secret trap door in the floor at the northeast corner of the
room. Perceptive characters might notice a disturbance in the dust
on the floor leading to the eastern door on the north wall. The dust
appears as though something was dragged across the floor from
the trap door to the doorway. The bottles contain clearly marked
elements of magical use such as "Eye of Newt," "Hair of Bat,"
"Snail hearts," and "Maresweat." There are, however, no com-
pleted potions among the bottles.
K56. Caldron
Through the darkness of this room you can just barely see
green-glowing wisps bubbling up from a huge black kettle.
Electric sounds of cackling suddenly strike, sending a shudder
through you.
7 witches, human: AC 8; MV 9"; HD 2; hp 13,12, 8,8, 7,6,2; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-4; AL CE; SA see spells below.
The witches attack immediately. They are incanting in this room.
Each witch can cast two spells.
Witch #1: burning hands, charm person.
Witch #2: dancing lights, detect magic.
Witch #3: feather fall, friends.
Witch #4: hold portal, dark.
Witch #5: magic missile, protection from good.
Witch #6: push, read magic.
Witch #7: shield, shocking grasp.
The witches' spellbook sits open beside the far side of the kettle.
The book is evil and does 3-30 (3dl0) points of damage to anyone
of non-evil alignment who even touches it. The book can be
handled by evil characters. It contains all of the spells the witches
know (see above) plus fear, curse and cloudkill spells and is worth
42,750 gp. The spellbook cannot be found until after all the
witches are destroyed.
Use Map 8 for K57-K58.
K57. Parapet Pentagram
This is the top of the tower. A turmoil of black, boiling clouds
rolls unceasingly over the dark towers of Ravenloft. The 60-
foot-diameter tower roof is rimmed with broken parapets that
drop into the swirling mists of fog below. A slender stone
bridge spans the gap between this tower and the tower to the
north, some 20 feet away. To the east, the high tower of Raven-
loft thrusts skyward with no apparent opening at this point.
The courtyard is 190 feet below. Anyone falling off the south or
east edge takes 19-114 (19d6) points of damage. The roof of the
keep is 80 feet from this point, so anyone falling off the north or
west edge of the tower first takes 8-48 (8d6) points of damage, then
must make a dexterity check or fall to the courtyard for an addi-
tional 10-60 (10d6) points of damage.
This slender stone and masonry bridge hangs in the swirling
fog. The stones are wet and slippery. The old iron handrailings
rusted away years ago, leaving the bridge without hand holds.
The bridge connects K57 and K20. See K57 for falling damage.
K59. Hightower Peak Use Map 10 for K59.
The spiraling staircase finally ends at a 5-foot-wide walkway
that circles the shaft. In the center of the tower's highest floor, a
15-foot-diameter hole drops into the cold heart of Ravenloft
itself. Cold air rushes up from the shaft sending a chill through
your every bone. Archers' slits line the walls. Aging beams
support a steep roof. One beam and part of the roof have fallen
away, leaving a gaping hole to the sky.
The hole is K18a.
K60. Northtower Peak Use Map 9 for K60.
The stairs emerge into a brightly lit room with manacles at-
tached to the walls and a wooden frame bed.
Check your Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure
here.
Larders of Ill Omen use Map 11 for K61-K72.
K61. Hallway
A web-filled stairway spirals down into the south end of this
10-foot-wide arched hallway. The stairs continue to wind down
further into the unholy depths of Ravenloft. A door leads out
from the north end of this hallway.
There is an elevator trap in this hallway triggered by pressure on a
panel in the floor. There is a secret door in the ceiling over the floor
panel. The secret door can be opened; it leads to K31a.
Anything weighing 400 gp (40 pounds) or more has a 30%
chance of triggering the trap. Roll for each character as he crosses
the floor plate. When the trap is sprung, two steel portcullises drop
with lightning speed, closing off the middle 10-foot section of the
hallway. Characters must make a dexterity check with a +5 bonus
to avoid being hit by the closing portcullis for 1-8 points of
damage.
As soon as the steel portcullises close, two stone blocks, 10 feet
wide by 2 feet deep, slowly descend from the ceiling. The stone
blocks take 1 full round (60 seconds) to drop to the floor, closing
just behind the steel portcullises. The blocks weigh 40 tons apiece
and are an irresistable force. Characters trapped between the stones
must make a saving throw vs. poison (sleeping gas) with a -4
penalty or fall asleep. Those who remain awake inside the trap feel
the floor suddenly rush upward. The stone compartment they are
in takes them to K47. The trapped and sleeping characters present
an excellent opportunity for Strahd to attack.
Characters who are not trapped between the falling portcul-
lises see the stone walls fall around their fellow adventurers, hear
several terrible grinding noises from within for 1 melee round, and
then watch the stones and portcullises rise—revealing a clear
corridor.
22

===== PAGE 24 =====
K62. Servants' Hall K66. Butler's Quarters
This hall stands in deadly silence. The low ceiling sags from
heavy beams. A fog clings to the floor in thick patches, obscur-
ing everything less than 3 feet above the floor. A giant shadow is
cast across the ceiling as a dark figure shuffles purposefully
down the corridor toward you.
At the east end of the hall is a rusted but sound portcullis leading to
K63. The double doors to the west are made of heavy planks,
banded with steel. Stairs on the east end of the north wall lead up to
K23. The figure approaching is Cyrus Belview who will not attack
first. The light in the room comes from a lantern on the floor
behind Cyrus.
Cyrus Belview, human, F-0: AC 8; MV 12"; HD 2; hp 8; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-4; AL CN.
Poor old Cyrus is obviously crazy. He has served the master for
uncounted years and is totally devoted to him. Cyrus tries to get the
PCs to retire "to your room in the tower" (K49). If the PCs do not
go to K49, Cyrus returns to his work of preparing his dinner in
K65. Cyrus tends to giggle to himself from time to time for no
apparent reason. He also likes to tell poor jokes at the most
inopportune moments.
K63. Wine Cellar
Arched frames of stone form a low wet ceiling over this wine
cellar. Great casks of wine line the walls, their bands rusting
and their contents long since spilled onto the ground.
At the far south end of the west wall, a crack, ½ inch wide by 5
inches long, leads to K18.
K64. Guards' Stair
This is a spiral staircase of gray, dusty stones.
This stairway starts at K68 and goes up past K13 to K46.
K65. Kitchen
A horrible odor of decay assaults your senses as you enter this
steaming room. A huge pot bubbles over a blazing fire in the
center of the floor, its green, muddy contents rolling over and
over.
Any characters that look into the pot encounter the zombies that
are in the pot. If Cyrus Belview is present (see area K62 above)
when the zombies attack, he grabs a large club near the door and
tries to beat them back into the pot. Cyrus explains that he just
isn't the cook he used to be and his meals tend to get out of hand
these days.
3 (normal) zombies: AC 8; MV 6"; HD 2; hp 5,4,2; #AT 1; Dmg 1-8;
AL N.
This 20-foot-square room is cramped by numerous items fill-
ing it from wall to wall. A small sagging bed sits to one side
under a huge faded tapestry of Ravenloft castle. Dusty lanterns
sit in various places. Huge, rich curtains are draped hapha-
zardly about the room. Thousands of pieces of junk cover the
floor. Broken swords, crumpled shields and helmets lie in piles
all about.
There is nothing of value in this room. If Cyrus Belview is with the
party, the PCs should notice that he is fingering their equipment
and chuckling to himself. Cyrus has been picking up equipment
from dead adventurers for years. He looks forward to adding to his
collection after Strahd gets through with the PCs.
K67. Guards' Hall
Darkness, cold as a winter sweat, wraps around you. Large oak
tables, scarred and beaten, lay scattered like toys about this
room, their wood crushed and splintered. Dark stains cover the
floor and the wall.
The room is 30 feet wide east to west and 60 feet long north to
south. There is a door in the center of the north wall and a door in
the center of the south wall. A set of double doors lead from the east
wall.
K68. Guards' Run
This 10-foot-wide arched corridor starts at a heavy wooden door
on the north. Cool, moist air blows out from an archway in the
west wall.
The archway leads to K69. The north door leads to K67. The
hallway ends at K64 to the south.
K69. Guards' Quarters
Sickly yellow lichen covers the ceiling of this 10-foot-wide
passage running east and west. Opening off to both sides of this
passage are 10-foot-square alcoves. Rotting cots and rags are in
the shadows of the alcoves. A deathly silence fills the hall.
When the characters enter the hall halfway, 10 skeletons leap from
the alcoves and attack.
10 skeletons: AC 7; MV 12"; HD 1; hp 7,7, 7,6,6,5,3,3,1,1; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-6; AL N.
K70. Kingsman Hall
This 30-foot-square room lies in chaos. Shattered furniture lies
in heaps near the walls. Broken bones lie scattered amid
crumpled and crushed plate armor. Shields and swords jut from
the walls as if driven there by some tremendous force. There is a
door in the center of the north wall, and a door in the center of
the south wall. A dark archway leads out through the east wall.
K71. Kingsmen Quarters
A dark, low passage leads to an ascending staircase. Sickly
yellow lichen covers the ceiling. There is a small room on each
side of the passage.
23

===== PAGE 25 =====
K72. Office of Vengeance
This shadowy room is in perfect order. An old cot stands to one
side, its heavy blanket made taut and straight. A great table
stands with its chair, inkwell, and quill lying carefully in place.
Lances and swords are carefully hung on the walls.
A shadow demon lives in this room. After the party enters the
room, the demon will leap out and attack. A secret door in the
north end of the west wall leads to K79.
1 shadow demon: AC 1; MV 12"; HD 7+3; hp 35; #AT 3;
Dmg 1-8/1-6/1-6; AL CE; SA +2 to hit, can cast darkness 10'
radius, fear once per day; SD takes half damage in darkness or
torchlight, immune to fire, cold, and lightning, turn as "spe-
cial" undead, 50% chance of going undetected.
If illuminated by a torch, the demon becomes AC 5, only +1 to hit,
and takes normal damage. If a light spell is cast upon it, the demon
takes 1-6 points of damage per level of the caster, as if struck by a
fireball. The demon appears as a shadowy humanoid form with
dim red eye slits.
Dungeon and Catacomb use Map 12 for K73-K88.
K73. Dungeon Hall
The stairs descend into black, still water that fills an arched
hallway before you. The water's surface is like dark mirrored
glass, disturbed only occasionally by the "thwick" of a drop
falling from the ceiling. Twenty feet down the hallway, arched
doorways lead downward 2 feet from each side of the hallway.
In each arched doorway, an iron door stands closed and par-
tially submerged. All is still except for a weak cry for help
coming through the south door.
The floor beneath the water is not as solid as it may seem. There is
a safe path (see Diagram A), but the rest of the floor is covered with
special weight-sensitive trap doors. There is a 5% chance per 100 gp
(10 lbs.) weight that a person standing on the false floor will cause
the trap to open. The pit under each trap door is a teleport that is
activated by the opening door.
The numbers on the floor in Diagram A are the cells the traps
teleport to. If a character sets off a trap, other characters in the hall
see an explosion of air and water fly up around the trapped
character (air that was trapped in the pit is released suddenly when
the trap door opens). The trapped character suddenly falls from
sight. The trap doors automatically reset themselves, leaving only
a slowly dissipating swirl in the water. Trapped characters are
teleported into dungeon cells, closed with iron bars, the floor 5 feet
under water (see areas K74 and K75). Strahd attacks lone characters
here if he can.
K74. North Dungeon
The fungus-laden ceiling hangs 3 feet above still, black water
that fills this dungeon corridor. The water is 5 feet deep. Small
cells, their entrances blocked by iron bars, are on both sides of
this arched central hall. Liquid drips from the hanging growth
on the ceiling.
The corridor is 40 feet long. There is a secret door 5 feet up the
north wall of cell "e" that leads to a polished marble slide (K82).
The secret door can only be opened from K82.
In each cell listed below, many previous adventurers gave up
their gold. All the items are lying under water.
Cell a 6100 ep
Cell b 5600 ep
Cell c 600 pp
Cell g 6900 ep
Cell h magical (glowing) +2 sword, LG; I 11; EGO 9
K75. South Dungeon
Use the boxed description from K74. A werewolf lurks in the water
in cell a, waiting. There are 650 pp in cell b.
1 werewolf: AC 5; MV 15"; HD 4+3; hp 17; #AT 1; Dmg 2-8 (2d4);
AL CE; SD can only be hit by silver or +1 or better weapons.
The werewolf appears as a villager. He begs the PCs to rescue him.
He was locked in here by Strahd because he disobeyed Strahd. The
werewolf is anxious to prove his worth to Strahd, so he will try to
join the party and attack the PCs at the first good chance.
K76. Torture Room
Dark, low shapes thrust up out of the still, brackish water that
fills this room.
This room is 50 feet square. The ceiling is 17 feet above the water,
which is 3 feet deep. There is an arched exit in the center of the east
wall. To the north, a large balcony (K77) stands 7 feet above the
level of the water in the room. Close examination reveals that the
dark shapes in the room are racks, iron maidens, stocks, and other
torture apparatus. The skeletons of their last victims seem frozen
in silent screams. The lower portions of them are underwater.
They are Strahd Zombies who attack after the party is in the room.
The zombies rise slowly out of the water, their slime-gray arms
clawing upward through the water as they attack.
6 Strahd zombies: AC 8; MV 9"; HD 4; hp 18, 16, 15, 13, 12, 10;
#AT 1; Dmg 1-8; AL N; single hit of 5 or more points dis-
members, dismembered limbs attack; turn as mummies.
K77. Observation Balcony
There are two large thrones on this balcony. Behind the throne
is a large red velvet curtain running 30 feet from the east wall to
the west wall. The ceiling here is 10 feet high.
This room continues behind the curtain an additional 10 feet to a
wall with a door in the center of it. The door leads to K78. A bag
containing 600 pp is hidden beneath the western-most throne.
Diagram A. Traps in K73
24

===== PAGE 26 =====
25

===== PAGE 27 =====
K78. Brazier Room K79. Western Stair
This room is 30 feet square, rising to a 20-foot-tall flat ceiling.
Gargoyle carvings smile, revealing their teeth, from high upon
the walls, well lit by a brazier that burns fiercely in the center of
the room. From their alcoves in the center of the east and west
walls, two iron statues stand saluting with their weapons bared.
Each statue has four arms, one with a shield, one with a sword,
and the remaining two with their palms toward the ceiling over
their heads. Their eyes seem to watch you as you walk about the
room. High overhead, an hourglass with writing on its base
hangs suspended above the brazier. All of its sand is in the
upper portion, somehow refusing to run down into the bottom.
In the center of the room next to the brazier is a golden chest. A
single door stands in the south wall while three doors line the
north wall.
The statues are iron golems. Each golem holds a stone in each
hand.
2 iron golems: AC 3; MV 6"; HD 10; hp 80, 80; #AT 1; Dmg 4dlO;
AL N; SD immune to all spells except electrical attacks, which
slow them to 50% movement; magical fire-based attacks repair
instead of damage.
The writing on the base of the hour glass reads:
In the palm of my hand
Is the time left to thee
When it's consumed
Will the flame set you free!
All the doors in this room are spring-loaded and shut on their
own if not prevented from doing so. When all the doors are shut,
the sands in the hourglass start falling and run for 5 rounds. All of
the doors lock shut. After the sands run out, the golems activate
and attack for 5 rounds. They then return to their original posi-
tions, at which time the door the party entered the room by
unlocks. The opening of any door resets the hourglass sands. Only
a single door can be opened at any one time. To open a door other
than the one they entered the room by, the characters must get one
of the stones from the statues' hands and place it into the flaming
brazier in the center of the room. If they do, the fire seems to
consume the stone, but the stone magically appears again in the
palm of the statue's hand. The stones activate the doors as follows:
DOOR
Southern door
West door on North wall
Center door on North wall
Eastern door on North Wall
STONE GOLEM HAND
Red Stone West Right
Blue Stone West Left
Black Stone East Right
Opal Stone East Left
The golems remain inanimate until the sands of the hourglass run
out. They will not use their natural poisonous gas ability. They
can only be struck by +3 weapons or better.
The chest appears locked. Opening the chest from the front
releases a cloud of sleeping gas from the false compartment in the
top. Once the false top has been opened, an illusion shows an
empty trunk. The trunk actually opens from the back and contains
a deck of many things; a scroll of protection from magic; a scroll
containing the two clerical spells dispel evil and flamestrike; and
two potions of healing.
This staircase of ancient stone is worn smooth through use in
ages long forgotten. Dust lies upon the floor and dry cobwebs
choke its passage.
The stairs rise at a 45 degree angle for a distance of 40 horizontal
feet where they come up to a landing 10 feet square. A second set of
stairs continues upward to the east at a similar angle a distance of
30 horizontal feet ending at a door to K72.
K80. Center Stair
The door creaks open to reveal a stone staircase between rough
masonry walls. The hall is relatively free of obstruction and
there is little dust on the steps. A cool dampness seems to flow
from within as a thick fog slowly forms in the room. The
staircase is obscured in the swirling mists. The wind within
howls mournfully.
The stairs rise at a 45 degree angle a distance of 20 horizontal feet to
a 10-foot-square landing. The masonry walls then abruptly end
opening into a roughly hewn tunnel heading east (K81).
K81. Tunnel
This is a long, low tunnel. Its rough damp walls are barely
discernible through thick fog. This tunnel passes through the
rock-pillar of Ravenloft itself.
Dwarves can tell that this is a relatively new construction com-
pared to that which has been seen thus far. The tunnel is 80 feet
long and ends in a stone door. There is a trap door in the floor, 25
feet east of the top of the stairs.
The trap is activated by weight. There is a 5% chance for every
100 gp weight (10 pounds) on the trap door that the door suddenly
opens. When the trap door opens, everyone who is standing on it
falls onto the marble chute in K82.
K82. Marble Slide
This is a smooth dark shaft of polished black marble.
The shaft plunges from the trap door in K81 through a one-way
secret door into cell e in K74. Thieves have a penalty of -35% on
their climb walls ability here.
K83. Western Stair
This is a dark spiral staircase of rough-hewn stone.
The staircase starts at K78, goes up to K83a, then continues up to
K37.
K83a. Western Stair Landing
This 40-foot-long corridor connects two spiral stairways. The
stairway on the north end of the west wall leads down further
under castle Ravenloft. The stairway on the south end of the
west wall leads up out of sight. All the stones in the walls and
stairways are rough-hewn.
The north stairway leads down to K78. The southern stairway
leads up to K37.
26

===== PAGE 28 =====
K84. The Catacombs
Buried deep beneath the keep of Ravenloft, this arched ceiling
sags over squat crypts, forming these catacombs. A thick fog
clings to the floor at knee height. Cobwebs hang limp in the
musty air. Thick dust has settled over everything, filling the
crypts' engravings, making it difficult to make out the names of
those buried here. The black ceiling is moving.
PLEASE READ THIS SECTION WITH CARE. MUCH ACTIV-
ITY CAN TAKE PLACE HERE. The catacombs fill an area
roughly 110 feet east to west by 180 feet north to south. The
catacombs are made up of 10-foot-wide arched walkways running
between 10-foot-square crypts. The arched walkways and the
crypts support the ceiling. There are five exits.
1. The crypt 1 door to the tunnel, K81.
2. The barred doorway north to room K85.
3. The barred doorway east to room K87.
4. The teleport in crypt 32 to room K86.
5. Up the high tower stair (K18) or shaft (K18a) to the west.
Each crypt houses the remains of the person (or persons) listed
on the crypt's stone door with an epitaph. The percent chance of
opening a crypt door is equal to twice the total number of strength
points applied. Super-strength characters add their percentages
bonuses directly to the total chance. Each crypt is described below.
Unless noted otherwise, each crypt contains a 3-by-5-foot rectan-
gular slab of marble, 3 feet high, with a skeleton draped in rags
lying atop it.
3,000 bats: AC 6; MV 4"/18"; HD 1d4; #AT 0; Dmg 0; AL N.
The bats hang here during daytime hours and fly out in the
evening through K18a to hunt at night. They will not attack
humans unless specifically commanded to by Strahd or unless
provoked. These bats do no damage but do get in the way of spell
casting. While these bats are attacking, any character attempting
to cast a spell with a material component must make a dexterity
check for the spell to work. Make it obvious to the players that
killing the bats is more trouble than it is worth.
There are transpositional teleports between crypts 37 and 38,
between crypt 37 and the wall south of it, and between crypt 38 and
the wall south of it. These teleports form a protective ring around
the obvious entrance to Strahd's coffin. These teleports exchange a
living body passing through them for the undead body of a wight
from crypt 14. Since the transfer is practically instantaneous, and
since only living and undead matter is teleported, the teleported
character's armor, clothing, etc., becomes suddenly occupied by a
wight. The teleport puts the wight into the same pose the character
it is replacing had. The teleport exchange appears to others as
though the character who was walking through the crypt passage
suddenly turned into a wight. The wight turns and attacks the
party with the original character's weapons. A wight appearing in
a PC's clothing and armor is not damaged by any holy symbols
that PC had (because the symbols are not forcefully presented).
The teleported character finds himself lying in a dark, confined
space (the interior of the wight's coffin) wearing ragged, rotting
cloth. The coffin lid requires a lift gates throw to be made with a
penalty of -5% to open it because of the confined space. If Strahd
attacks at this time, he may want to help open the coffin lid and
attack the character in it.
Once out of their crypts, the creatures in K84 will pursue the
PCs anywhere, except into rooms K85, K86, and K87.
Each crypt is listed below. The epitaph on each stone door is
written in quotes.
Crypt 1. "Spectre Ab-Centeer. She now walks that path of pain and
torment. A gift to all who look upon her still."
The stone door leads not to a crypt, but to a hewn tunnel of stone
(K81).
Crypt 2. "Artista DeSlop — Court Ceiling Painter"
Crypt 3. "The Lady Isolde Yunk (Isolde the Incredible). Purveyor
of Antiques and Imports."
Crypt 4. "Prince Aerial Du Plumette (Aerial the Heavy)"
1 ghost: AC 0/8; MV 9"; HD 10; hp 40; #AT 1; Dmg age 10-40 years;
AL LE.
The stone door is on the south side of this crypt. Ariel was a terrible
man, who sacrificed more than himself in his quest for wings.
Characters that see this ghost age 10-40 years and flee in panic for
for 2-12 (2d6) turns unless they make a saving throw vs. spells.
Clerics above 6th level are immune to this attack, and other classes
above 8th level gain a +2 bonus on their rolls. The ghost attacks
with a magic jar spell while ethereal, or by touch if materialized as
noted. Spells do not work against a ghost unless they are cast on
the ethereal plane. Any human, dwarf, elf, gnome or halfling that
is killed by a ghost is dead forever.
Crypt 5. "Artank Swilovich: Here interred and with great mourn-
ing courtesy of the Barovian Wine Distillers Brotherhood."
Crypt 6.
The name and epitaph on this crypt have been clawed off as if by
some mad tormented beast. The stone once read, "Marya Marko-
via: Great was her beauty, undone by a jealous hand."
Crypt 7.
The stone door lies on the floor, obscured by the fog. The crypt
gapes open. Rags of white linen lie flat on the slab. A spectre waits
within.
1 spectre: AC 2; MV 15"/30"; HD 7+3; hp 40; #AT 1; Dmg 1d8 +
drain 2 energy levels; AL LE; SD +1 or better weapon to hit.
This spectre is not affected by sleep, charm, hold, or cold based
spells. Anyone totally drained of levels by the spectre becomes a
half-strength spectre in the control of the monster that drained
him.
Rotting leather bags under the linen cloth contain a total of
3,400 gp.
The epitaph reads: "Endorovich (Endorovich the Terrible):
What the blood of an thousand slaves did not do, the spurn of a
woman accomplished." This man loved Marya (see crypt 6) and
found that she loved someone else in his court. As Marya and her
lover were dining, Endorovich put poison into the man's wine
27

===== PAGE 29 =====
glass. The glasses were mixed up and the girl drank it instead. The
lover was hanged for the deed and buried in the cemetery behind
the church in Barovia township. Endorovich never did get over his
guilt and, in his madness, killed many in his lifetime.
Crypt 8. "Duchess Dorfniya Dilisnya"
Crypt 9. "Pidlwik (Fool of Dorfniya)"
Four earthen jars in a corner of the crypt each contain 1,550 ep.
Crypt 10. "Sir Leanne Triksky (Sir Lee the Crusher). What sword
did not, time's passage did."
Three pieces of jewelry are draped over the skeleton, each valued at
5,000 gp.
Crypt 11. "Tasha Petrovna, Healer of Kings. Light unto the West.
Servant. Companion."
Crypt 12. "King Toisky"
Crypt 13. "King Intree Katsky (Katsky the Bright. King, Ruler, and
Inventor)."
Five-hundred pp are in a hole under the skeleton.
Crypt 14. "Stahbal Indi-Bhak: Advisor to Endorvich from eastern
lands. A truer friend no ruler ever had. Here lies his family in
honor."
Inside, the vault appears to be three times the size indicated by its
walls. In the vault there are 15 stone coffins with heavy lids. There
is a wight in each coffin. Characters are teleported into these
coffins (as the wights are teleported out) from the traps around the
entrance to K86. The remaining wights assist anyone inside a
coffin trying to remove its lids, thus making the feat relatively easy.
The wights can only be hit by magical weapons.
15 wights: AC 5; MV 12"; HD 4+3; #AT 1; Dmg 1d4 + drain 1 energy
level; AL LE.
Crypt 15. "KHAZAN: His word was power."
Crypt 16. "Elsa Fallona"
Crypt 17. "Sir Sedrik Spinwitovich (Admiral Spinwitovich). Con-
fused though he was, he built the greatest naval force ever
assembled in a land locked country."
Crypt 18.
The opening stone has been carefully laid to one side. Through
the swirly mists of the perpetual fog newly engraved letters can be
read, "Ireena Kolyana: Wife."
The crypt is empty. This is where Strahd intends to keep Ireena
after she is "converted."
Crypt 19. "Animus (Builder of the Keep). Thou standeth amidst
the monument to his life."
Crypt 20. "Sasha Ivliskova: Wife."
1 vampire: AC 2; MV 12"/18"; HD 8+3; hp 47; #AT 2; Dmg ld6+4 +
drain 2 energy levels; AL CE.
This vampire is an old wife of Strahd's, a townsperson now under
his control.
Crypt 21. "Patrina Velikovna: Bride."
1 banshee: AC 0; MV 15"; HD 7; hp 47; #AT 2; Dmg 1d6 +2 with 2
levels energy drain; AL CE; SA keening, save vs. spells or die.
Dwarves notice that the engraving on this stone door is newer than
most of those found so far. The Banshee inside attacks as soon as
the crypt is opened. Her treasure is behind her in the crypt.
She may only cry her deadly keening once per day, and then
only in total darkness. The very sight of her acts as a fear spell
unless a saving throw is made.
Patrina was a gypsy elf maiden who, having learned in early
life a great deal of the black arts, was nearly a match for Strahd's
powers. She felt a great bond with Strahd and desired to become
one of his wives. Strahd, ever willing, agreed, but before the final
draining of spirit from her soul could take place, her own people
stoned her to death in mercy. Strahd demanded, and got, the body.
She then became the banshee spirit found here.
Heaped in mounds about the crypt is Patrina's treasure: 500pp,
3,300 gp; and 5,300 ep.
Crypt 22. "Sir Erik Vonderbucks"
Crypt 23.
The opening stone is unmarked. The crypt is empty.
Crypt 24. "Ivan DeRose, Champion of Winter Dog Racing. The
race may go to the swift, but vengeance is for the loser's relatives."
Crypt 25. "Stephan Gregorovich, First Counselor to Baron von
Zarovich"
Crypt 26. "Intree Sik-Valoo: He spurned wealth for the knowledge
he could take to heaven."
Crypt 27.
There are three huge spiders in this crypt.
3 huge spiders: AC 6; MV 18"; HD 2+2; hp 16, 16, 11; #AT 1;
Dmg 1-6 + poison; AL N.
Crypt 28. "Ardent Pallette, Chef Delux"
A body in white cloth with a high chef's hat atop the skull rots
naturally. Inside the hat are three pieces of jewelry worth 1,200 gp
each.
Crypt 29. "Ivan Ivanovich, Beloved of Anna Petrovna."
Crypt 30. "Prefect Ciril Romulich (Beloved of King Barov and
Queen Raven) High Priest of the Most Holy Order."
28

===== PAGE 30 =====
A body in white clothing rots naturally, its skull resting atop a
small chest. Within the chest are 10+7 arrows; 1 scroll of raise dead;
and 3 bottles containing potions of poison, clairvoyance, and
invulnerability.
Crypt 31. "$$We knew him only by his wealth"
There is a large, bulging chest in the center of the crypt. The floor
is a trapper who attacks anyone that steps up to the apparent chest.
1 trapper: AC 3; MV 3"; HD 12; hp 62; #AT 4+; Dmg 4 + victim's
AC; AL N.
Crypt 32. "St. Finderway, Saint of Lost Travellers"
The crypt is featureless except for two alcoves in the back wall.
Over the alcoves is written "Pass not these portals ye foolish
mortals!"
These alcoves are transmitting and receiving teleports. The
alcove on the east sends those who enter it to the eastern most
alcove in K86. Stepping into the western alcove has no effect; it
receives persons teleporting from the western alcove in K86.
Crypt 33.
The stone door is blank. This crypt has never been used.
Crypt 34. "King Dostron"
Crypt 35.
The stone door is blank. This crypt has never been used.
Crypt 36.
The stone door is clawed and marked so that no name is readable.
The tomb is empty.
Crypt 37. "Gralmore Nimblenobs"
The stone door only gives the name above. A body in red robes lies
within, rotting naturally. About the corpse are one +1 sword with
one wish; a scroll with charm monster, polymorph other, and
polymorph self spells; and a scroll with fireball, hold person,
haste, lightning bolt, and slow spells.
Crypt 38. "Americo Standardski (Inventor)"
When this crypt is opened, three pairs of red glowing eyes stare
out. Three hellhounds attack. These hellhounds do 5 points of
damage at up to 10 feet from their scorching firebreath; or only 4
points if the character saves vs. dragonbreath. They can use their
breath once per round for as many rounds as they wish.
3 hellhounds: AC 4; MV 12"; HD 5; hp 29,23,23; #AT 1; Dmg 1-10
+ breath weapon; AL LE.
Crypt 39. "Beucephalus, The Wonder Horse. May the flowers
grow ever greener where he trods."
This crypt has a larger door than all the rest. A nightmare inside
rears up when the door is opened. The nightmare's smoking
breath obscures vision, blinds opponents, and chokes them tem-
29

===== PAGE 31 =====
porarily, causing them to attack with a -2 penalty (to hit and
damage) unless a saving throw is made. This is Strahd's steed. The
steed usually leaves by flying up the shaft in the spiral staircase,
K18a.
1 nightmare: AC -4; MV 15"/36"; HD 6+6; hp 29; #AT 3; Dmg 2d4
(fangs) /2d4+2 / 2d4+2 (burning hooves); AL NE; SA breath
weapon of smoke.
Crypt 40. "Tatsaul Eris: Last of the line"
K85. Tomb of Sergei Von Zarovich
A peaceful stillness, a calm amid the storm, is felt here. In the
center of the tomb, a white marble slab holds the coffin of Sergei
Von Zarovich. This quiet room is 50 feet long north to south
and 30 feet across. To the north, behind the intricately inlaid
coffin, there are three alcoves. Beautifully carved statues stand
in each alcove, just as the day they were placed there.
The coffin opens easily to the touch of any lawful good character.
The body is clothed in shining +2 plate mail armor. Check your
Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure and encounters
here.
A darkness clouds this room and the essence of evil permeates
the very air. The smell of freshly turned earth is here. This room
appears to be 50 feet long from east to west and 30 feet across.
There are three empty alcoves in the south wall. Settled into the
dirt on the floor, lies a shining black coffin of finely waxed
wood. The coffin's fittings are of brilliant brass. The lid is
closed.
Check your Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure and
encounters here. If Strahd has been reduced to 0 hit point-, within
the previous 8 game hours, his body is in this coffin.
Two of the three alcoves on the south wall are teleports. The
center alcove is non-magical. The east alcove is the entry point for
a teleport from crypt 32. Entering the east alcove does nothing.
The west alcove teleports whoever enters it to the west alcove in
crypt 32.
K87. Guardians
Wide steps descend to a landing flanked by two alcoves. Within
each alcove, standing the full 30-foot height of the ceiling, is a
bronze statue holding a spear. A soft blue curtain of light flows
between the two alcoves. Dimly visible on the other side of the
light curtain are more descending stairs.
Anyone of lawful good alignment can pass through the curtain
without difficulty. All other alignments are teleported back to the
top of the stairs behind them.
K88. Tomb of Barov and Ravenovia
This tomb rests in hushed silence. Great stained windows fil-
ling the eastern walls filter dim light into this room. A closed
coffin stands on each side of this roughly 40-foot-square room.
After Strahd is destroyed forever, you may want to provide an
ending for the players to wrap things up. The following scenario
is provided as an optional ending to this module. The scenario is
set at dawn on the overlook (K6). Ireena Kolyana must be with the
PCs.
Thick clouds are overhead. Through the chilly morning mists,
the lands of Barovia are visible far below. There is a peaceful-
ness here. Rest has come to the valley for the first time anyone
ran remember. There is sleep without fear.
A light flashes brilliantly behind you. Wheeling around,
you see a shining stately man in white armor and cape. His
rugged features show great strength of will, yet the forcefulness
of his presence is tempered by his calm, sad eyes. His features
are those of Strahd, yet subtly different.
His voice is calm and peaceful. "My name is Sergei von
Zarovich." He turns to Ireena, "Tatyana, the time is at hand to
rest. Come, my love and wife." He stretches forth his hand.
Ireena Kolyana's questioning eyes suddenly open with
recognition and knowledge. Forgotten memories rush upon
her. "Sergei!" she cries, springing to him with the grace of a
doe. They embrace.
Ireena turns to you. "I am Ireena Kolyana, but in my past I
was Sergei's beloved Tatyana. Through these many centuries
we have played out the tragedy of our lives. Now, with our
deepest gratitude to you, that tragedy is over. It is time for joy to
begin again."
Shimmering light surrounds Ireena and Sergei. Hand in
hand, they walk east toward the edge of the overlook. Their feet
do not touch the ground, they tread a path beyond this mortal
world. Their invisible road takes them beyond the eastern prec-
ipice, their glow illuminating and thinning the clouds above
Barovia. The clouds suddenly break open, letting glorious
shafts of sunlight flood through. In the valley below, the
strange fog dissolves, loosing its power. Barovia is free once
more.
Check your Fortunes of Ravenloft results for possible treasure and
encounters here.
Treasures and Tomes
Holy Symbol of Ravenkind
The Holy Symbol of Ravenkind is an ancient platinum medallion
that was once worn by the High Priest of Ravenloft. It is a power-
ful lawful good symbol.
The holy symbol is shaped like the sun, with a large crystal
embedded in its center. Around the crystal are many holy symbols
of light and truth. When presented forcefully toward any undead
creature, the medallion adds +2 to the cleric's "turn undead" roll.
When presented against vampires, however, it flares with the light
of the sun for 1-10 rounds. Remember that vampires are destroyed
by exposure to direct sunlight for 10 rounds. Vampires cannot
move or attack while the medallion flares. Other creatures are not
be affected by the medallion. The medallion can only be used once
per week.
30

===== PAGE 32 =====
Sunsword
The sunsword is a magical longsword. Its blade is a form of crystal
glassteel, held by a platinum hilt and guard. It glows with dim
blue light most of the time.
The sunsword is a +2 sword against all creatures except
undead. When within 30 feet of any undead, the blade suddenly
glows brilliant blue. The blade is +3 vs. undead (to hit and dam-
age). When used against vampires, the blade flares and sparks
when it hits, inflicting 10 additional points of damage per hit.
Ages ago, Strahd employed a powerful magician to destroy the
sword. The first part of the process required that the hilt and blade
be separated, then destroyed simultaneously. However, before the
hilt and blade were destroyed, the magician's assistant stole the
blade and attempted to flee from Barovia. Though his body was
later found in the woods, the blade was not with him. When it was
separated from the hilt, the blade took on the appearance of a
normal longsword.
Though the hilt remained in Castle Ravenloft, the blade was
never found. Strahd has always lived in fear that the blade may be
reunited with the hilt. It so happens that one of the PCs has been
using the blade with a normal hilt (since without the hilt it cannot
be discerned from a normal blade). If the PCs find the hilt, it will
magically leap onto the blade, replacing the PC's hilt, becoming
the sunsword.
Tome of Strahd
The Tome of Strahd is an ancient work penned by Strahd himself.
It is a tragic tale of how Strahd came to his fallen state. The book is
bound in a thick black leather cover with brass hinges and fasten-
ings. The pages are of parchment and very brittle. Most of the book
is written in the curious shorthand that only Strahd himself
employs. Stains and age have made most of the work illegible.
There is a base 30% chance to read any paragraph in the book. Read
the paragraphs in order from the text below.
I am The Ancient, I am The Land. My beginnings are lost in
the darkness of the past. I was the warrior, I was good and just. I
thundered across the land like the wrath of a just god, but the
war years and the killing years wore down my soul as the wind
wears stone into sand.
All goodness slipped from my life; I found my youth and
strength gone and all I had left was death. My army settled in
the valley of Barovia and took power over the people in the
name of a just god, but with none of a god's grace or justice.
I called for my family, long unseated from their ancient
thrones, and brought them here to settle in the castle Ravenloft.
They came with a younger brother of mine, Sergei. He was
handsome and youthful. I hated him for both.
From the families of the valley, one spirit shone above all
others. A rare beauty, who was called "perfection," "joy," and
"treasure." Her name was Tatyana and I longed for her to be
mine.
I loved her with all my heart. I loved her for her youth. I
loved her for her joy. But she spurned me! "Old One" was my
name to her — "elder" and "brother" also. Her heart went to
Sergei. They were betrothed. The date was set.
With words she called me "brother," but when I looked into
her eyes they reflected another name — "death." It was the
death of the aged that she saw in me. She loved her youth and
enjoyed it. But I had squandered mine.
The death she saw in me turned her from me. And so I came
to hate death, my death. My hate is very strong; I would not be
called "death" so soon.
I made a pact with death, a pact of blood. On the day of the
wedding, I killed Sergei, my brother. My pact was sealed with
his blood.
I found Tatyana weeping in the garden east of the Chapel.
She fled from me. She would not let me explain, and a great
anger swelled within me. She had to understand the pact I made
for her. I pursued her. Finally, in despair, she flung herself from
the walls of Ravenloft and I watched everything I ever wanted
fall from my grasp forever.
It was a thousand feet through the mists. No trace of her was
ever found. Not even I know her final fate.
Arrows from the castle guards pierced me to my soul, but I
did not die. Nor did I live. I became undead, forever.
I have studied much since then.''Vampyr" is my new name.
I still lust for life and youth, and I curse the living that took
them from me. Even the sun is against me. It is the sun and light
I fear the most. But little else can harm me now. Even a stake
through my heart does not kill me, though it holds me from
movement. But the sword, that cursed sword that Sergei
brought! I must dispose of that awful tool! I fear and hate it as
much as the sun.
I have often hunted for Tatyana. I have even felt her within
my grasp, but she escapes. She taunts me! She taunts me! What
will it take to bend her love to me?
I now reside far below Ravenloft. I live among the dead and
sleep beneath the very stones of this hollow castle of despair. I
shall seal shut the walls of the stairs that none may disturb me.
Monsters, Creatures, and Men
Barovian Villagers
FREQUENCY: Rare
NUMBER APPEARING: 3-10
ARMOR CLASS: 10
MOVE: 12"
HIT DICE: 2
% IN LAIR: 90%
TREASURE TYPE: Individuals M, B in lair
NUMBER OF ATTACKS: 1
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-6
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Normal
INTELLIGENCE: Normal
ALIGNMENT: NG
SIZE: M
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil
The Barovians and their ancestors have lived in this valley for as
long as anyone can remember. Their lives are deeply imbedded in
their homes and their traditions. They are, by nature, very wary of
31

===== PAGE 33 =====
strange peoples and customs, almost to the point of paranoia. The
way Barovians deal with strangers is somewhat unsettling. They
have a tendency to stare openly, in silence, venting their disap-
proval of everything that is not familiar to them. Barovians are not
talkative with strangers to the extent of being pointedly rude. Most
Barovians have violent tempers that boil through their customary
silence when they are provoked. They also have a social cohesive-
ness (thrust upon them by their weird circumstances) that can
make them rise up together against outsiders if one Barovian is
mistreated.
Barovians are, by tradition, a happy people, though their his-
tory and current conditions are not happy. If one manages to win
the trust of a Barovian, one has a friend for life and an ally that will
never fail.
The Barovians know the following:
1. When they attempt to leave the land of Barovia, they begin to
choke. Those who do not turn back perish.
2. The Master of Ravenloft is "The Devil Strahd." Barovians
believe that Strahd is a curse placed over the land because of
some forgotten sin of their ancestors.
3. Vampires can be destroyed, but no one has ever succeeded.
Barovians know all the tricks for destroying vampires out-
lined in the Monster Manual.
Gypsies
FREQUENCY: Common
NUMBER APPEARING: 3-30
ARMOR CLASS: 6
MOVE: 12"
HIT DICE: 5
% IN LAIR: 10%
TREASURE TYPE: Individual M, A in lair
NUMBER OF ATTACKS: 1
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-8
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Nil
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Nil
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Normal
INTELLIGENCE: High
ALIGNMENT: NE
SIZE: M
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil
Gypsies' traditions, humor, and language are dark and myste-
rious. Only the gypsies can pass through Barovia at will. Their
leader, Madam Eva, foreshadows the events that befall adventur-
ers. Gypsies may be found anywhere.
The gypsies speak in long flowing riddles of often useless
information. They tell tales of their forefathers that are almost
certainly untrue. Their riddles and stories are a front, for the
gypsies are a most serious people. They are quick to act when their
lives or traditions are threatened. They are merciless when they feel
they must be.
Gypsies readily tell adventurers that they have a potion that
protects them from the vampire. Although this is a lie, they
attempt to sell their fake potion for as much money as they can get.
The gypsies always try to appear as though they are helpful. In
truth, the only information that they ever give away is misleading
at best and often a lie. The gypsies are in the service of Strahd von
Zarovich and fear the consequences of disobedience.
Strahd Zombies
FREQUENCY: Very rare
NUMBER APPEARING: 1-10
ARMOR CLASS: 8
MOVE: 9"
HIT DICE: 4
% IN LAIR: 80%
TREASURE TYPE: Nil
NUMBER OF ATTACKS: See below
DAMAGE/ATTACK: 1-8
SPECIAL ATTACKS: Severed members also attack
SPECIAL DEFENSES: Turn as Mummies
MAGIC RESISTANCE: Normal
INTELLIGENCE: Non-
ALIGNMENT: N
SIZE: M
PSIONIC ABILITY: Nil
Attack/Defense Modes: Nil
Strahd zombies are a form of undead that serve the vampire Strahd
von Zarovich. They were called into being through a dark magic,
now forgotten even by Strahd himself. Strahd zombies were created
from the long-dead guards of Castle Ravenloft.
Strahd zombies appear fragile. Their gray green flesh looks soft
and their bones seem brittle. Any single hit of 5 points or more
severs parts of their bodies.
Despite their appearance, however, the life forces of Strahd
zombies are very great. Severed limbs continute to attack.
Each Strahd zombie's life force lies in its total being. So, dam-
age to any part damages the whole creature. Damage to any one
part in excess of a Strahd zombie's total hit points destroys all of
that zombie's parts.
Strahd zombies are turned as mummies.
117-T-9075
32

===== PAGE 34 =====


===== PAGE 35 =====


===== PAGE 36 =====


===== PAGE 37 =====


===== PAGE 38 =====


===== PAGE 39 =====


===== PAGE 40 =====
