
===== PAGE 1 =====


===== PAGE 2 =====


===== PAGE 3 =====


===== PAGE 4 =====
LEGEND OF THE TOMB 
The legend of the tomb is an old story with many parts, some of 
which may be lost or obscured. Characters attempting to glean 
special information by consulting sages or through legend lore 
spells may still have difficulty obtaining as much background as 
they desire, for the scraps of information are often minimal and 
mystical. 
These bits of information are available as clues, and characters 
can make of them what they wish: Ancient Burial Places; Ancient 
Tombs; Sorcerous Kings; Challenges, Surpassing (Certain Death); 
Soul Eaters; Treasure, Great . . . The other parts ofthe legend can 
be furnished by the Dungeon Master from the description which 
follows: 
The Tomb of Horrors: Somewhere under a lost and lonely hill of 
grim and foreboding aspect lies a labyrinthine crypt. It is filled with 
terrible traps and not afewstrongeandferocious monsters to slay 
the unwary. It is filled with rich treasures both precious and 
magical, but in addition to the aforementioned guardians, there 
is said to be a demi-lich who stillwords his final haunt. (Bewarned 
that tales told have it that this being possesses powers which 
make him nearly undefeatable!) Accounts relate that it is quite 
unlikely that any adventurers will ever find the chamberwherethe 
demi-lich Acererak lingers, for the passages and rooms of the 
Tomb are fraught with terrible traps, poison gases, and magical 
protections. Furthermore, the demi-lich has so well hidden his lair, 
that even those who avoid the pitfalls will not be likely to locate 
their true goal. So only large and well-prepared parties of the 
bravest and strongest should even consider the attempt, and if 
they do locate the Tomb, they must be prepared to fail. Any 
expedition must be composed of characters of high level and 
varied class. They must have magical protections and weapons, 
and equip themseives with every sort of device possible to insure 
their survival. 
Possible locale of the Tomb 
I) The highest hill on the Plains of Iuz 
2) An island (unmapped) in the Nyr Dyv 
3) In the Bright Desert 
4) At the western border of the Duchy of Geoff 
5) Somewhere in the Vast Swamp south of Sundi 
6) On an island beyond the realm of the Sea Barons 
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER 
As clever players will gather from a reading of the Legend of the 
Tomb, this dungeon has more tricks and traps than it has 
monsters to fight. THIS IS A THINKING PERSON’S MODULE, AND IF 
YOUR GROUP IS A HACK AND SLAY GATHERING, THEY WILL BE 
UNHAPPY! In the latter case, it is better to skip thewholething than 
come out and tell them that there are few monsters. It is thiswriter‘s 
belief that brainwork is good for all players, and theywill certainly 
benefit from playing this module, for individual levels of skill will be 
improved by reasoning and experience. If you regularly pose 
problems to be solved by brains and not brawn, your players will 
find this module immediateiy to their liking. 
Negotiation of the Tomb will require quite a long time, so be 
prepared to spend several sessions with this module. When the 
game ends for the day, assume the expedition is spending the 
intervening time until play again commences resting and 
recovering from adventuring up to that point. Allowing actual/ 
game days on a 1/1 basis gives players a chance to recover 
some lost hit points, too. As there are no monsters to be randomly 
encountered within the Tomb. the party might be allowed to 
encamp close to the entrance without fear of random encoun- 
ters, but if you do so opt, do not inform the players of this. 
Please read and review all of the material herein, and become 
thoroughly familiar with it, before beginning the module. As 
players enter keyed areas, you will note from appropriate 
information whether or not the area has one or more illustrations 
for visually highlighting play. Read aloud appropriate sections, 
but never give any additiondl infomtion.which player charac- 
ters would have no way of knowing, and dvoid facial expressions 
or voice tones which might give helpful hints or mislead players. 
The real enjoyment of this module is managing to cope, and 
those players who manage to do so even semi-successfuliy will 
appreciate your refereeing property and allowing them to “live or 
die” on their own. 
The startling information for the module depends on whether 
you are using the Tomb as an insertion into your own campaign, 
as a section of THE WORLD OF GREYHAWKTM fantasy setting, or 
simply as a one-shot exercise for your players. Because of the 
variableness, the information for starting is stated so as to 
assume the expedition has arrived at the site of the TOMB OF 
HORRORS. As Dungeon Master, you may fill in whatever back- 
ground is needed, and if this is a section of a campaign, play- 
ers cannot have obtained the Legend information without 
* consulting sages, casting legend lore spells finding the infor- 
mation in some arcane work, or whatever; all prior to locating 
the actual locale of the Tomb and then getting to it, so that 
background will have been accomplished. [When this mod- 
ule was used at Origins I, referees were instructed that the hill 
had been found in the Vast Swamp, and the party had arrived 
there in barges.] 
Start: The Pam/ has arrived at the site of the demi-lich’s last haunt. 
Before them is a low, flat topped hill, about 200 yards wide and 
300 yards long. Only uglyweeds, thorns, and briars grow upon the 
steep sides and bald top of the 60 high mound. There are black 
rocks upon thetopofthehill,andiftheseareviewedfromo height 
ofabout200’orsoabovethemound, itwill beseen thatthewhole 
is shaped like a human skull, with the piles of rock appearing as 
eye holes, nose hole, and the jagged teeth of a grinning death’s 
head. A thorough inspection and search of the entire area will 
reveal only that the north side of the hill has a crumbling cliff of 
sond and gravel about 20’ high in about themiddleofthewhole. 
(This is the area 34 squares wide which forms the eost-west axis of 
your dungeon map.) A low stone ledge overhangs this eroded 
area, and shrubs and bushes obscure it from observation at a 
distance. 
It will require a full turn for searching each IO’ of this cliff area. 
Search must be done from a distance with a long spear or IO’ 
pole. Prodding must be high in order to collapse sufficient 
material to expose a portion of a tunnel entronce. Once on 
entrance is exposed, it will require about 1 hour for 6 characters 
working in teams of 3 to thoroughly clear o passage, but a crawl 
space con be opened in 1 turn by 3 characters digging with 
swords ond hands. Note that probing of the gravel and sond face 
can begin wherever the players choose-east, west, middle, 
several locations or merely a single one at a time. Leave this 
strictly to the players to decide. The best manner to handle it is to 
ask where they will search, once they have determined that they 
will investigate the area and have stated how it will be done and 
with what. Remember low probing, or probing with short 
implements (daggers, swords, etc.) will not reveal anything. 
As soon as any entrance is cleared ond entered, go to the KEY. 
Note: Characters who become astral or ethereal in the Tomb will 
attract o type I-IV demon 1 in 6, with a check made each round. 
. .. 
, 
. 
2 

===== PAGE 5 =====
KEY TO THE TOMB 
1, FALSE ENTRANCE TUNNEL: The corridor is of plain stone, roughly 
worked, and it is dark and full of cobwebs. The roof 20 
overhead is obscured by these hanging strands, so casual 
observation will not reveal that it is composed of badly fitting 
stones. Daylight will be sufficient to reveal that there is a pair of 
oaken doors at the end of the passageway. If the roof is 
prodded with any force, or if the doors are opened, the roof of 
the tunnel will collapse and inflict 5-50 (5d10) hit points of 
damage upon each character inside of it, with no saving 
throw. The doors open outwards by great iron ring pulls. The 
cobwebs must be burned away to be able to inspect the 
tunnel ceiling. THIS AREA IS ILLUSTRATED BY GRAPHIC #I. 
2. FALSE ENTRANCE TUNNEL: This IS another plain stone passage 
way, but the ceiling is only 10 high. Daylight will enable 
adventurers to dimly see what appear to be two separate 
doors at the end of the corridor. The floor paving at 50' 
distance within the passage will shift slightly when characters 
tread upon its surface. They will hear a rumbling from behind 
(or beside if some areat 30'within) them. Atthis instant begin 
counting slowly to IO-about 1% seconds per count-and if 
you reach 10 before any player has reacted as noted below, 
the huge stone block, IO' thick, has slid shut and completely 
sealed off the passageway. This block cannot be moved or 
forced back. Trapped characters can escape only by the 
following means: disintegrate, phasedoor. stone-flesh 
(assuming a sufficient quantity of the block con be 
changed), transmute rock-mud, wish. Ployers giving notice 
that their charocter is running out will be oble to cover 1' of 
distance/l " of movement rate fortheir character/count.Thus, 
o base 6" movement rate means that the character can 
cover 6' of distance in the space of a single count. Mentally 
note such character's actions, and when the 10 count is 
finished, compute where each character is. The block begins 
slow movement, so that at the count of 1 only,a slight bit 
protrudes, at 2 it is 2'+ a bit out into the corridor, at 3 it is 4'+, at 4 
it is 6'+, at 5 it is 9', at 6 it is 11 '+, at 7 it is 13'+, at 8 it is at 16', at 9 
the block is 18'+ across, and at 10 it has slammed shut and 
crushed anything between it and the wall. EXCEPTI0N:An iron 
bar will stop the block, but only if the bar is placed on the floor 
where it will wedge the block. A bar elsewhere will bend and 
allow the block to come shut, but 1 count will be gained as 
the bar bends. The doors at the end of the passage are false 
ones. THIS AREA IS ILLUSTRATED BY GRAPHIC #2. 
3. ENTRANCE TO THE TOMB OF HORRORS: Even a bit of daylight 
entering through a crawl space or a torch will reveal that this 
is an unusual tunnel. Bright, brilliant colors are to be seen 
everywhere, the stones and pigments undimmed by the 
passage of decades. (USE ILLUSTRATION #3 NOW.) The floor of 
the corridor is a colorful mosaic of stone, with a distinct, 
winding path of red tiles about 2' wide (the line snaking its 
way south down the corridor) easily visible to the onlooker. 
(See special note regarding the pit traps at the end of this 
paragraph.) No stonework can be seen on the walls or the 
ceiling 20' above, for some sort of cement or plaster has been 
smoothed over all of these surfaces and then illustrated. The 
scenes painted show fields with kine grazing, a copse with 
several wolves in the background, slaves (human, orc, elven, 
and strange human-animal mixture - pig-human, ape 
human, and dog-human) going about various tasks. Certain 
of the frescoes show rooms of some building - a libraryfilled 
with many books and scrolls, a torture chamber, a wizard's 
work room (see 4. below for more details of this area). There 
are chairs, windows, boxes, bales, doors, chests, birds, bats, 
spiders and all manner of things shown on the walls. 
All pits (except where noted to the contrary) throughout the 
Tomb are 10' deep and concealed by a counter-weighted 
trap door which opens as soon as any person steps on it. 
Thrusting with force upon these traps with a pole will reveal 
them 4 in 6 (d6,l-4). Those who step upon a pit lid will have a 
base 100% of falling, modified downwards by 1 % per point of 
dexterity through 12, and 2% for each point above 12, Le. 
dexterity of 13 = 14% chance of not falling into a pit, dexterity of 
14 = 16%. 15 = 18%, 16 =20%. 17 = 22%, and 18 dexterity = 24% 
chance of not going in. At the bottom of each pit are 5 iron 
spikes coated wiih poison. Roll d6 to determine how many 
spikes wound the victim; 1, 2, and 3 meaning that number of 
spikes have wounded the victim, 4-6 equal NONE HAVE 
WOUNDED the character. Each spike causes 1-6 hit points of 
damage, and the victim must make a saving throw versus 
poison for each spike which wounds him or her. Any failure 
means the victim is killed by the poison. 
A. This area is where the torture chamber is painted, and the 
wall hiding this passage shows a painting of the iron door 
which evidently confines some sort of a horrid creature (its 
taloned and scaled hands grasp the bars of its smoll 
window) which can be loosed to torment prisoners. If the 
plaster and lath behind it is broken may, a normal, inward 
opening door will be revealed. 
B. If the pattern of the floor has been carefully observed and 
studied from the entrance to this point, the individual with 
such perseverance will be rewarded by suddenly under- 
standing that a message is contained in barely notice- 
able runes in the mosaic floor. It says "ACERERAK 
CONGRATULATES YOU ON YOUR POWERS OF OBSERVATION. 
SO MAKE OF THIS WHATEVER YOU WISH, FOR YOU WILL BE 
MINE IN THE END NO MATTER WHAT! 
Go back to the tormentor or through the arch, 
ond the second great hall you'll discover. 
Shun green if you con. but night's good color 
is for those of great valor. 
If shades of red stand for blood the wise 
will not need sacrifice aught but a loop of 
magical metal - you're well along your march. 
Two pits along the way will be found to lead 
to a fortuitous fall, so check the wall. 
These keys and those are most important of all, 
and beware of trembling hands and what will maul. 
If you find the false you find the true 
and into the columned hall you'll come, 
and there the throne that's key and keyed. 
The iron men of visage grim do more than 
meets the viewers eye. 
You've left and left and found my Tomb 
and now your soul will die." 
4. FRESCO OF THE WIZARDLY WORK ROOM: The most outstand- 
ing feature of this area is actually outstanding! Two jackal- 
headed human figures (USE ILLUSTRATION #4ASSOONASTHE 
PARTY EXAMINES THIS AREA CLOSELY) are painted so as to 
appear to be holding a real bronze chest. If this box is 
examined closely, the viewer will note that it is hinged on the 
bottom so as to allow the lid to swing down if a catch on top is 
pressed. The catch has an easily detectable poison needle 
trap, ond this can be avoided easily by pressing the stud wiih 
a dagger pommel, etc. However, when the box opens, it will 
appear to be absolutely empty, but if a character actually 
feels inside the chest he or she will find a rod which stands 
vertically from the bottom. This lever moves easily. and if it is 
pulled with any force it will open the shaded trapdoor which 
covers a 30 deep pit (spiked and poisoned as are all traps of 
this sort here) which will inflict 3-1 8 (3 46) hit points of damage 
to all who fall within, exclusiveof spike damage. Note: This trap 
door is 3' thick and cannot be detected by sounding or by 
any magic which detects secret doors, or even traps. True 
seeing will reveal a fine rectangle where the sione plug is, but 
it will not show what it does. Once triggered, the pit remains 
open thereafter. 
5. THE ARCH OFMIST: Onesectionofthepathshownonthefloor 
3 

===== PAGE 6 =====
leads directly into this archway. If any charocter stands within 
I' of the entranceway upon the path, the base stones will 
glow yellow on the left, orange on the right, and the keystone 
7' above will glow blue. (When this happens, SHOW YOUR 
PLAYERS ILLUSTRATION #5.) There is a misty veil across the 
archway, and nothing will cause the vapors to clear, nor will 
any sort of magic allow sight into the area, until the glowing 
stones are pressed in the proper sequence - YELLOW, BLUE, 
ORANGE. If this sequence is pressed, the vapors disappear, 
and the poth appears to go eastwards. If the archway is 
entered when it is clouded, those characters doing so will be 
instantly teleported to 7. (see below). If it is passed through 
ofter pressing the glowing stones in proper sequence, those 
stepping through ON the path will be teleported to II., those 
who pass through off the path will be sent back to 3. 
6. THE FACEOFTHEGREATGREEN DEVIL: Theotherforkofthe path 
leads right up to an evil-appearing devil face set in mosaic at 
the corridor's end. (SHOW YOUR PLAYERS GRAPHIC #6). The 
face has a huge 0 of a mouth; it is dead block. The whole 
area radiates evil and magic if detected for. The mouth 
opening is similar to a (fixed) sphere of annihilation, but it is 
about 3' in diometer - plenty of room for those who wish to 
leap in and be completely and forever destroyed. 
7. THE FORSAKEN PRISON: This miserable cubicle appears to 
have absolutely no means of egress, ond even a magical 
means of detection will not indicate any. There are 3 iron 
levers (about I'long) onthesouthwallofthechamber.These 
levers will move horizontally or vertically, singly or in 
combination. Only the act of moving oll 3 together upwards 
or downwards will have any results. Moving them straight up 
opens a small trapdoor in the center of the ceiling (IO 
above). Pushing them simultaneously down opens the entire 
floor to o 100' deep pit with no exit. Damage from the fall is 1 G 
100 (1 0 dl 0) hit points, ond the floor will outomaticolly return 
to a closed position in 1 turn, thus sealing any inside the pit 
there until another victim triggers the drop away again. 
The ceiling route is a crawl spacesome 3'square.Atthe place 
it turns east there is a plug in the ceiling which can be 
detected only with magical vision means or if a character has 
sense enough to test for secret doors by rapping. Secret door 
detection will not be of avail here except as noted. Eventually 
the small tunnel leads to a magical one-way door which 
opens in the pit side as shown, ond players are bock to 
squareone . . . 
8. GARGOYLE LAIR: When any door leading to this room is 
opened, it frees o mutated 4-armed gargoyle from temporal 
stasis. This monster is a huge (H.P.: 64; 19 strength) 
monstrosity thot ottacks 6 times/raund as a 12 hit dice 
creature inflicting domage as follows: 2-8 x 4/3-12/1-6, and if 
ony 2 of the clawing ottacks (2-8 x 4) hit, the creature will do 
on additional 7 hit points of rending damage to the 
opponent so struck. Around the creature's neck is a collar 
studded with huge, gleaming gems (blue quartz stones of 
100 g.p. value each, 10 gems total). Hidden in a secret 
compartment of the collar is a slip of parchment with the 
following written on it in magical runes which require a read 
magic spell to understond: "Look low and high for gold, 
to hear a tale untold. The archway at the end, and on your 
way you'll wend." Beneath the runes is the initial "A'. (USE 
ILLUSTRATION #8 FOR THIS ENCOUNTER). 
9. COMPLEX OF SECRET DOORS: Each of these portals must be 
opened by hand, and each requires o different method of 
opening. Meanwhile, each round thattherearecharacters in 
a shaded room, a number of bolts will be fired into the area 
from hidden devices in the walls and ceilings, and 1 
character, rondomly determined, in each such area, will be 
hit for 1-6 points of damage unless he or she makes a saving 
throw versus magic. There is absolutely no way to prevent the 
bolts from being triggered and from hitting, and armor and 
spells will NOT have any effect either. The various secret doors 
open as follows: 
A. pull down 
B. pivots centrally 
C. pull inward and up at bottom 
D. slides up 
E. double panels pull inward 
F. slide left 
G. 7 studs - press all and 
door opens, 1 & 7 bring 
door falling inwards 
for 3-1 8 h.p. damage 
10. GREAT HALL OF SPHERES: This area is similar to 3., for the floor 
is of inlaid tiles and the walls and ceiling ore painted with 
figures of animals strange signs and glyphs (which mean 
absolutely nothing), and humans and human-like creatures 
with spheres of different colors. These globes are 2-dimen- 
sional of course, and their significance and pattern are 
described below. (ASSOON AS THE party arrives HERESHOW 
THEM GRAPHIC #IO.) From north to south, with the west wall 
being the first column, and the east the second, the figures 
and spheres appear as follows: 
GOLD held high above head' PALE BLUE at shoulder 
ORANGE held waist high 
(Folse door) (secret one-way door") 
PURPLE at feet 
(False door) YELLOW at shoulder 
BRONZE held waist high 
GRAY at shoulder 
(none) PALE VIOLET ot shoulder 
BRIGHT BLUE at feet (none) 
WHITE held high above head RED held waist high"" 
TURQUOISE ot shoulder BUFF at feet 
SCARLET held waist high (none) 
PALE GREEN at feet INDIGO held high above 
head 
' 
~., 
. 
SILVER at feet 
GREEN held high above head 
PINK held high above heod 
BLACK at feet"' 
an illusion covering a crawlway to 11. 
rock to mud, or stone to flesh spell 
an illusion covering a crowlway to 14. 
**** on illusion covering a crawlway to 13. 
A. Magic Archway: When the party examines this arch give 
them ILLUSTRATION #5, and inform them that the stones 
glow in these colors whenever any person comes within 3' 
of the portol: lower left. OLIVE; keystone RUSSET; lower right, 
CITRON. No matter which stones are pressed in what order, 
the archway remains clouded and veiled with a haze 
which nothing can enable the onlookers to see through. 
All living matter which goes through the arch will be 
teleported to 3., while non-living matter is teleported 
simultaneously to 33., i.e. characters stepping through will 
appeor at the start totally nude, while everything else with 
them will go to the crypt of the demi-lich. (Cruel, but most 
entertaining for the DM . . .) 
11. THE THREE ARMED STATUE: When players find this smallish 
room they will immediately see what appears to be a broken, 
8' tall statue of a 4-armed gorgoyle (GRAPHIC PI I), with a 
broken off 4th arm on the floor neorby. No amount of fooling 
around with the broken arm will enable itto bereplaced, and 
the statue will do nothing at all meanwhile. A close look ot its 
open and outstretched hands, however, will detect thot a 
large gem (a 100 g.p. blue quartz one fits perfectly) will fit in 
a caned depression in each of the 3 remaining hands, while 
the broken one has no such concavity. If 3 large gems ofany 
sort are ploced within the hands, the stoney digits will close 
and crush them to powder, dump the groins on thefloor, ond 
return to their normal positions. If this is repeated twice more, 
and 9 gems are so crushed, o 10th (or more) will cause the 
triggering of a magic mouth spell to speak the following 
words: 
** this door can be opened by a knock, disintegrate, 
4 

===== PAGE 7 =====
“YOUR SACRIFICE WAS NOT INVAIN. LOOK TO THE FOURTH 
TO FIND YOUR GAIN.” 
As these words are spoken, an invisible gem of seeing will 
come into being in the palm of the broken off arm of the 
statue. The gem must be found and the character so doing 
will need to wipe it free of a magical substance before it can 
be seen or used. Note that if the arm is carelessly moved, the 
gem will fall off and roll away. Detect invisibility or any other 
sort of searching except by careful feeling will be useless. 
Describe the gem, once wiped clean and visible, as an oval 
diamond, with two flat and polished sides, very clear, and 
about one inch diameter by one-quarter inch thick. It will 
operate only 12 times, then shatter. 
12. TRAPPED FALSE DOOR: At this location, as well as several 
people have rotting flesh, skeletal hands, worms eating them, 
etc. Yet there are also depicted various religious symbols of 
goad alignment, and a faint aura of good can be magically 
detected. What a puzzle! Could the demi-lich actually have 
been of good alignment? There is a mosaic path leading to 
the altar, and to either side great wooden pews face the 
worship area. (All of these benches have hinged seats. The 
back pair of pews have 4,000 s.p. each hidden therein, the 
next pair have 3,000 electrum pieces each, the next have 
2,000 g.p. each, and the front pair have gas traps - a cloud 
of gas will fill the whole chapel in 2 rounds after opening the 
pew bottom. and all in the placewill lose 2-8 points of strength 
for 48 hours!) A wooden railing divides the room, and south of 
it is the altar, a tiered dais with a wooden chair (nicelycarved 
and padded but unremarkable), 2 large brass candelabra 
others throughout the Tomb, there are false doors which 
screen a spear trap. (When one of these doors is opened, 
hand the players ILLUSTRATION #12.) A spear will shoot out, 
and the door opener@) or any others standing before it are 
subject to be struck. Determine at random, if need be, which 
character is the target, and that player must then make a 
saving throw versus magic to avoid taking 2-16 (2 d8) hit 
points of damage. When the door is closed and reopened, 
another spear will fire. 
holding 5 white candles each, and ineach corner a large 
white pottery urn stoppered with a brass and wood plug. A 
human skeleton in black chain mail (badly rusted and torn) 
points to area B. (Now show your players ILLUSTRATION W4.) 
A Opalescent Blue Altar: This block of strange material 
glows with an inner light. (Avery faint evil can be detected 
2 in 6 per round of detection.) If the thing is touched by 
living matter it will send a lightning bolt 40’ long and 8‘ 
wide shooting up the aisle - base 40 hit points of 
’ 
13. CHAMBER OF THREE CHESTS: When the party enters the 
crawlway hidden by the sphere illusion of a red color, they 
will come to an apparent dead end, but a bit of examination 
will easily discover (4 in 6) a secret door. The character 
opening the door will be precipitated to the floor 10 below by 
a tilting stone at the mouth of the crawlway, and an 
automatic 1-6 hit points damage sustained (a mere 
annoyance, but it erodes the strength of the porn/). At this 
juncture show the players ILLUSTRATION #I3 (A). The large 
chests are affixed firmly to the floor; the 1st is of gold, the 2nd 
of silver, the 3rd of oak bound with thick bronze bands. Each 
is about 4‘ long, 2’wide. and 3’ high. In these containers are: 
Gold: (Plate only over iron) 12 large asps (H.P.: 9 each; 
AC 6; attack as 3 hit dice monsters; cause 1 h.p. of 
damage only when biting, but saves versus their 
poison are at -2) will slither out and attack next 
round. They are fast (12” move) and will continue 
biting until all are killed. (USE GRAPHIC #I3 (E).) 
Silver: (Plate only over iron) holds a ring (protection +I) in a 
clear crystal box (worth 1,000 g.p.). When this box is 
lifted from the supposed bottom of the chest, 8 darts 
will fire upwards, and 1-2 characters (maximum which 
can be in thelineoffire)willtake1-4 hitseachiftheyare 
exposed to the path of these missiles. (Actually 
reaching in and removing the case is exposure!) 
Damage is 1-6 hit points per dart,with no saving throws. 
(USE GRAPHIC #I3 (C).) 
Wood: When the lid is opened, an animated skeleton of a 
giant will be instantly teleported into the chest, and it 
will always strike first. The thing wields 2 (non-magical) 
scimitars, and it attacks twice/round for 2-12 h.p. of 
damage per hit. The skeleton has 32 h.p., AC 2, and 
attacks as a 10 hit dice monster. All edged weapon 
hits upon it cause only 1 h.p. of damage, but blunt 
ones score normal damage. Magic does not affect 
this monster, and it cannot be turned. Holy water will 
cause 1-4 hit points of damage. (USE GRAPHIC #I3 
14. CHAPEL OF EVIL: By passing through the illusionafy black 
sphere the party will have crawled along the small tunnel until 
reaching theend,onlytofind itissolidstone.Itrequiresa1 in6 
to find the secret door at the passage end, no matterwhat the 
race of the character examining the area, and no form of 
magic will detect it, save the gem of seeing. Once inside, 
they will see what is obviously some form of temple area. 
There are scenes of normal life painted on the walls, but the 
(W.) 
damage, saveversus magic reduces the hit points to 20. 
After this bolt streaks forth, the altar turns a fiery bluered 
and if it is touched by any object it will explode doing base 
60 hit points of damage to all creatures within a 30’ radius 
(saving throw reduces damage by 50%). 
B. Archway of Glowing Orange: As already stated, the 
skeleton on the floor of the chapel room is outstretched 
and pointing to the arch. (ShowyourplayersGRAPHlC ”5, 
and explain that none of the stones of the arch glow, but 
that the entranceway is filled with luminous orongevapors 
of an exciting hue.) These vivid orange mists cannot be 
penetrated with any sort of vision or magic. The skeleton, 
of course, misleads the party, for any character passing 
through the portal will enter a IO‘ x IO’ room where their 
sex and alignment are reversed by a terrible curse. 
(Although restoration of alignment and sex to original is 
difficult, the curse once reversed will not alter paladin- 
hood, ranger status, etc.) Reentering the archway will 
restore original alignment, but 1-6 hit points of damage 
will be sustained in so doing. Going back a 3rd time will 
reverse sex again, but the individual will be teleported as 
arch IO. A. does. Only a wish or alter reality spell will 
restore both alignment and sex. However, if alignment is 
restored by entering the orange portal, a remove curse 
spell will then restore original sex. Prior to alignment 
restoration, no spells other than the those stated will affect 
the cursed character. 
C. Careful inspection here has a 4 in 6 chance of noticing a 
small slot with a letter 0 faintly traced above it. This is a 
moving stone block described below. It cannot be 
magically detected, nor will it open by physical or 
magical means other than the method given in 15. 
15. STONE GATE: This stone is only 2‘wide, 4’ high, and 10 thick in 
a wedge shape. It is impregnated with strong anti-magics 
which prevent its detection or removal or change to another 
form or substance. The slot (C. above) is of sufficient size to 
accept a coin or a flat gem. It is also just right for insertion of a 
magic ring, and only such an item will actually trigger the 
mechanism which causes the block to sink slowly into the 
floor so as to allowentry into the passage beyond.Thering (or 
any other object deposited into the slot) is forever lost, as the 
sinking stone crushes all to pieces. The gate opens easily 
from the other (east) side, and no special item is required to 
trigger its opening from that side. 
The corridor widens to 10 and turns southward where steps 
lead down steeply to a corridor west. The series of 3 doors in 
5 

===== PAGE 8 =====
the corridor are easily opened on any roll of 6 in 6,2 in 6 (1 or 
2) indicating that the door opener falls through as the door 
opens so easily, plunging into the pit (see 3. above for pit 
details). Of course, if the door is not violently pushed against, 
it swings inward, and the partywill have standard chances of 
falling in when the characters leading the way step on the 
cover. By the time the 3rd door and pit have been reached, 
they will certainly expect the pit, and will be likely to ignore it. 
This carelessness will prevent them from examining the pit 
from within, as a wooden door painted to look like stone will 
be observed 5 in 6, immediately felt if a tactile investigation 
of the walls are made. It is most probable that the party will 
proceed to area 16. 
16. LOCKED OAKEN DOOR: The gate is heavily bound with iron 
bands and there are several locks apparent. If a character 
listens with an ear to the door, he or she will hear far-off music 
and happy singing, obviously coming from somewhere 
beyond. The door radiates a dim magical aura, and no 
forcing or knock spells will open it. A disintegrate spell, or 
physically chopping it to pieces, provide the only means to 
continue past it. Once the door is destroyed, sounds of 
confusion and running (away) can be heard from the north 
-a11 music and singing has ceased. There is a faint glow 
(torchlight?) northwards. The walls of the passage are of 
smooth white alabaster, and the floor is a verysmooth, highly 
polished smoke gray marble. The destruction of the door 
triggered an audible glamer spell to produce the noise 
heard. The tunnel floor is a counter-weighted beam. Its 
overbalancing point is the 3rd square from the door, and 
when 1 or more characters step there the floor will begin to tilt 
downward from the door north, with the north end slowly 
sinking. (AT THIS MOMENT SHOW YOUR PLAYERS GRAPHIC 
#I 6.) Quickly state thefloor is beginning toslant asexplained 
above. Begin counting slowly (as per 2. above) to 5. All 
characters still north of thedoorwoyattheconclusion ofthe5 
count will fall and begin sliding downwards to the north at 
1 O’/segment. When the 40’ point is marked each will take 1-6 
h.p. of heat damage, 2-1 2 h.p. at 50’- and thereafter they are 
plunged into a pit of flames and molten lava which will 
absolutely snuff them out. Retreat from the area during the 
count is at the l’/I’’ of base movement rate per count. 
17. MAGlCALSECRETDO0R:Thisentrancetotheremainderofthe 
Tomb is along thestairwaywhich leads down. It can befound 
by any means, but nothing will enable it to be opened until 
the area is either viewed through a gem of seeing, a similar 
spell is cast, or a detect magic spell is used to pinpoint the 
magic aura. When the magic of the door is found, it will 
require a dispel magic or remove curse spell to remove the 
guard which prevents the door from being opened. Once 
accomplished, the secret door can be opened easily from 
either side. 
18. FALSE CRYPT PROTECTED BY FEAR GAS Before the party can 
enter this area, they must descend the stairs and enter the 
slightly cloudy west passage. The tunnel is fear gas filled, and 
unless characters announce they are holding their breath 
before entering its 40’ length, they will breathe in the gas- 
save versus poison or run away at top speed for 2-8 turns. 
Beyond the first 10, the gas becomes thicker, and it irritates 
the eyes. so it is only 3 in 6 for any character to notice the 
south door. Once the south door is opened, the gas 
dissipates. 
A. The False Ctypk The steps down to the chamber at the end 
are filled with webs which can only be removed by magical 
fire (burning hands, a flaming sword, etc.). Any character 
trying to break through them will become hopelessly 
entangled and can not get free unless magically burned free 
or wished out. At the very foot of the stairway is a silver-inlaid 
mace which will begin to glow with a bright golden light 
when it is picked up by any character. Wheneverthis weapon 
is swung at the pseudo-lich, itwill hit.The pseudo-crypt is filled 
with rotting and decayed furnishings which were oncemost 
6 
19. 
costly. and upon a solid gold couch (50,000 g.p. value) a 
lich-like figure with a crown on its head will be slowly rising 
(and throwing up its hands in apparent fear if the mace is 
being carried). A booming voice from the whole of the 
chamber will demand: “WHO DARES TO DISTURB THE REST OF 
ACERERAK? IT IS YOUR DEATH WHICH YOU HAVE FOUND.” (After 
this announcement you should show your players GRAPHIC 
#18.) The purported lich is actually a magicallyprepared 
zombie with spells upon him which give the following stats: 
AC-4; move base 12“; H.P.: 32; attacks Ijround as a 6 hit dice 
monster for 3-1 0 h.p. damage; and anti-magic charms will 
absorb 12 levels of spells cast before any will take effect (any 
spell partially absorbed is spoiled). Between strikes the 
zombie will gesture magically with its hands as if readying a 
spell. If it is struck by the golden mace it will make a roaring 
bellow (magic mouth spell), and the weapon will obviously 
stagger it (roll dice and shake your head). The 3rd time it is 
struck by the gold mace the zombie will instantlywither and 
disappear in a puff of dust, the mace will shatter, and at this 
moment the room will start to shake and stones will begin to 
come down from the ceiling. OBVIOUSLY THE PLACE IS 
BEGINNING TO COLLAPSE, but take your time detailing the 
rumblings, tremors, grinding noises, falling hunks of ceiling, 
and so forth; and if players inquire they can Seea jadecoffer, 
the dead monster‘s fallen crown, and a fine leather bag (a 
give-away-it isn’t rotten) within easy reach. All other items 
are iron, locked, etc. NOW BEGIN COUNTING SLOWLY TO 10, 
and it is odds on that there will be a stampede up the stairs to 
get away! A programmed illusion from the pseudo-crypt will 
give the full effects of a cave-in, and actual dust will billow up 
the stairs, while bits of stone begin to fall in the east-west 
tunnel and then the north-south tunnel and stairs reached 
from the pit. Ifthepartyrunsout. askthem iftheythought itwas 
too hard a dungeon . . . 
The jade coffer is worth 5,000 g.p. and contains 6 healing 
potions. The crown is begemmed and worth 25,000 g.p. The 
small sack holds 278 p.p., 29 base 10 g.p. gems, a scroll of 7 
magic-user spells (pretend to roll, butthey areall Istand 2nd 
level), and a map showing a location several hundred miles 
away which supposedly has a rich treasure (it is a fake, 
naturally). If this doesn’t make them suspicious enough to 
take another run through tocheckthingsout, putthemodule 
away for use when you have a different group (or the same 
ones) inquiring about one of the key references in the 
Legend. Note that something so simple as a communespell 
will reveal that the demi-lich has not been destroyed. In any 
event, Acererakwill see to the righting ofthings eventually. The 
only treasure left in the pseudo-crypt is the gold couch. 
LABORATORY AND MUMMY PREPARATION ROOM: Although 
there is only 1 item of eventual use within this totally plain and 
cluttered place, the volume of items within it is calculated to 
waste timefortheplayers.Allofthewallsarelinedwithshelves, 
and upon these are old jars filled with dust and impotent 
ingredients of all sorts. There is a large desk and stool, 2 
workbenches, and 2 mummy preparation tables. Clay pots 
and urns on these tables and the floor obviously once 
contained unguents, ointments, oils, perfumes, etc. Linen 
wrappings are in rolls or strewn about. Dried herbs of unidenti- 
fiable nature, bones, skulls and the like litterthework benches. 
In the south are 3 vats of about 7’ diameter and 4‘ depth 
which contain murky liquids. (SHOW THE PLAYERS GRAPHIC 
#19.) The 1st holds 3’ of dirty water. The 2nd contains a slow- 
acting acid which will cause 2-5 h.p. of damage the round 
after it comes in substantial (immersed arm, splashed on, 
etc.) contact with flesh-minor contact will cause onlya mild 
itch; at the bottom of this vat is one-half of a golden key. The 
3rd vat contains a gray ochre jelly (H.P.: 48 4-16 h.p. of 
damage due to its huge size) with the other half of the gold 
key beneath it. The vats are affixed to the floor and too heavy 
to move. The key parts are magical and will not be harmed by 
anything, and if the parts are joined together they form one 
* 
. 
. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
solid key, hereafter called the FIRST KEY. As the acid will harm 
even magical weapons, the players will have to figure some 
way to neutralize or drain off the contents of the 2nd vat, as a 
reach-in-and-gropefor-it technique has a 1 % cumulative 
chance per round of being successful. 
20. HUGE PIT FILLED WITH 200 SPIKES: (SHOW GRAPHIC #20.) This 
IO’ deep, open pit completely fills the passageway and 
extends so as to make jumping across it totally impossible for 
most creatures. Ergo, the pit must be crossed by climbing 
down and walking across it, then climbing up the other side. 
Simple! Wrong-any footstep upon the last 3‘ (east portion) 
of the pit will cause a volley of spikes to be discharged 
upwards, and each person in the pit or leaning over its edge 
will be struck by 2-5 spikes, each hit causing 1-6 hit points of 
damage, no saving throw. Some magical means must be 
used to get across, for new spikes will come up where the 
ones which were discharged came from. 
21. THE AGITATED CHAMBER: The secret door to this place is a 
normal sort, so it can be found without undue difficulty. It 
appears to be filled with funerary offerings and furniture. 
(SHOW GRAPHIC #21). There are 4 rotting sofas, several 
thronelike chairs, vases, and urns which are dented, chipped 
and broken, stands, small tables, and braziers, all jumbled 
together. Only the rather plain tapestries hanging upon the 
east and west walls appear to have been spared a rough 
looting. There are 6 locked trunks and 24 locked coffers 
amidst the general havoc. The heavy trunks are empty, but 
the small coffers hold either 1-3 angryasps (H.P.:4 each;AC 6; 
attack as 2 hit dice monsters; normal poison + 1 h.p. damage 
for the bite) if 1-3 on d6 is rolled, 8-80 p.p. if4-5 on d6 is rolled, or 
2-8 base 10 g.p. gems if 6 is rolled. The weight of the players 
upon the balanced floor will have set a mechanism into 
motion, and each round they remain in the place a d6 must 
be rolled. Any odd number resulting from a roll means that on 
the next turn the floor of the room will jump and buck up and 
down violently. Each player must be rolled for, with a 2 in 6 
chance to fall and sustain 1 hit point of damage from 
abrasions and contusions. 
The tapestries, which appear to feature weed-grown rocks 
and green and golden tan scenes of undersea life, are 
specially anti-magic treated creations of green slime and 
brown mold. If they are torn, they instantly turn into green 
slime and cover each and every player character/character 
standing before them, Le. each covers a 20’ long by IO’ deep 
area of floor when it falls. Covered characters are turned to 
green slime and gone, with no recourse possible due to the 
amount of slime. Note that the tapestries can be handled 
normally, just notyanked soasto tearthem (and theyarewell 
affixed at the top); however, if any character is holding one 
when the room becomes agitated, it is 75% probable that the 
jerking motion will tear the thing. If these hangings are 
subjected to burning they instantly turn to brown mold and 
drain 4-32 (4d8) h.p. of heat from all characters within 5’ of the 
mold (and it gets worsefrom there . . .). Notethesecret door 
behind the tapestry on the west wall. 
22. THE CAVERN OF GOLD AND SILVER MISTS: As a private joke, 
Acererak has caused a beautiful and good aligned siren to 
be placed into this cavern under an enchantment. She must 
be asked to come out to break the spell, and she can give no 
clues as to the nature of her durance. (DISPLAY GRAPHIC 
The mists are silvery and shot through with delicate streamers 
of golden color. Vision extends only 6‘. There is a dim aura of 
good if detected for. Those who step into the mist must save 
versus poison or become idiots until they can breath the 
clean air above ground under the warm sun. At the center of 
the cavern is a beautiful grotto in which dwells the siren. 
If she is asked to come with the party, she will do so, stay with 
them through the adventure, and thereafter be their friend for 
life. She has the following statistics: AC 5; Move 12“//24“; Hit 
#22.) 
Dice 4; H.P.: 20; Magic Resistance 20%; High intelligence; and 
spell powers as follows: charm person (by song) at +2, all 
within 3“, invisibility, suggestion, polymorph self - each 
usable once per day. Any creature whom the siren touches in 
anger must save versus poison or become an idiot (2 
intelligence) for 5-20 turns. She has the power to cure idiocy 
so caused (or that of the mists) by touch also. There are 2 
sacks with the siren, a large one, and a small one, both of 
which will disappear if she is asked to accompany the party. 
If either is touched the siren and the other sack disappear. 
These sacks are: 
Large Sack This bag contains 50 pieces each of copper, 
silver, electrum, gold and platinum. It appears to 
be a normal sack, but it radiates magic if it is 
checked, for it is a small bag of holding (filled 
weight 5 pounds, 250 pound weight limit inside, 
30 cubic feet volume capacity). 
Small Sack: To determine the contents of the small sack roll a 
dl 0: 
’ 
1-2 filled with wool 
3-4 5 pieces of jewelty 
36 1-6 potions of extra-healing 
7 1-6 scrolls 
8 4-48 base 100 g.p. gems 
9 bracers of defense, AC 6 
0 ring of feather falling 
It is not possible to gain both the large and the small sacks. If 
a character or characters state they will grab them simul- 
taneously, dice to see which is touched a fraction of a 
second sooner. The other disappears - along with the siren 
- forever. 
The siren will converse in a friendly fashion only, asking how 
characters are and if they find the going hard in the Tomb. 
She will answer any direct questions with an evasive reply: 
“I cannot say,” “That is unknown to me,” “Possibly,” etc. until 
she is freed. She knows nothing of the Tomb in any event. 
23. FALSE/TRUE DOOR: When the party reaches this point and 
opens the door, it is probable that they will believe it to be 
nothing more than a false door, but the seemingly blankwall 
of solid stone behind the false door hides a secret door. Note 
that just beyond the secret door is a secret trap door in the 
corridor floor. This opens to a steep flight of narrow stairs which 
spiral down to a 5‘wide passageway which emerges at area 
24. 
A. The most likely place that will be found, however, is the 
passage full of sleep gas which is reached by the east 
door. When the doors to the north (which open to the 
sleep gas area) are opened, evetyone in that passage will 
instantly collapse in slumber for 2-8 turns. Each turn of 
slumber roll a d4, and if a 4 results, a stone juggernaut 
(rather like a steam roller) comes out of the 20’x20’ room 
to the north and rolls 1-6 spaces (1 0’- 60’) south then west 
as determined by a roll of d6. Everything it rolls over is 
squashed to a pulp. There is no appeal. (If the party is in 
this way destroyed, show them GRAPHIC #23 ) 
24. ADAMANTITE DOOR: Although it is marked secret, it is very 
evident; the marking is simply to make certain that its actual 
nature is known. It has permanent anti-magics on it, and there 
is no magical or physical way offorcing entry. There are 3 slots 
in the door at about waist height. If 3 sword blades are shoved 
simultaneously into the slots, the I’ thick panel will swing 
open. THIS ISAONE WAY DOOR WHICH CANNOT BE PREVENTED 
FROM CLOSING IN 5 ROUNDS! 
25. THE PILLARED THRONE ROOM: There are scores of massive 
columns in the hugechamber, and each ofthese 3‘diameter 
pillars radiates magic when detected for. Any character who 
touches a pillar with or without intent will uncontrollably float 
upwards (levitation) until he or she bounces gently around 
on the ceiling just as a child’s helium balloon. To stop this 
7 

===== PAGE 10 =====
effect a dispel magic or remove curse spell must be placed 
upon each such individual. (Use GRAPHIC #25 to display this 
I1 0’ square, 30‘ high room.) There seems to be a gentle 
breeze in the room, for any character floating amongst the 
many-hued columns will begin drifting northeastwards or 
northwestwards (towards locations A or B). From the entry 
the observant character will be able to observe part of the 
dais (D) or room 27, if a bullseye lanthorn is employed. 
A. Devil Face: (ILLUSTRATION #6.) About 24’ above the floor 
is a mosaic of a green devil which appears to beexactly 
the same as that first encountered in the entrance hall to 
the Tomb. Any creature coming within 3‘ of its gaping jaw 
will be sucked in and instantly teleported to be “spat out” 
nude from location 6.. while all non-living matter with the 
character goes to location 33. 
6. Devil Face: This is identical to A. above, but it is tinged with 
a bluish color over the green and any character drawn 
into this mouth opening is teleported into location 27.A. 
C. Charred Remains: Cinders, ashes, charred bones and 
skulls, the crisped and blackened remains of clothing and 
gear, arms and armor - a thoroughly awful and 
frightening sight - encircle a huge, glowing orangegem. 
(DISPLAY ILLUSTRATION #25( ).) If evil/magic is/are 
detected for, the gem will send out pulses of wickedness 
and a strong aura of dweomer - so strong that the 
detecting character will get the vague feeling that the 
magic is wish connected. The gem is a cursed wish 
magic item, and no matter what is desired by the 
character daring to touch it and wish, a reverse or 
perversion will bring doom to that character and all 
named in the wish. Immediately after causing theevilwish 
to transpire, the gem begins to pulse with reddish lights, 
growing progressively stronger, brighter and hotter. Count 
to 10 as usual. The stone then explodes, absolutely killing 
any character within a 15’ radius with a wave of searing 
radiations and flames. The gem remains as a noisome 
mass of stinking purplish mold which bubbles and 
chuckles. In 1 week the mass will reform as a glowing 
orangegem . . . 
D. Ebony Dais and silver Throne: (USE GRAPHIC #25.(D).) 
Contrasting with the pastel colors of the floor and pillars of 
the hall is the stark blackness of the huge dais atop which 
rests an obsidian throne inlaid with silver and ivory skulls. 
Upon the throne rest a crown and a scepter, both ofwhich 
will give off an aura of magic. The crown of gold negates 
the pillars’ levitation effects and enables the wearer to see 
within the hall as if he or she were in normal daylight, but 
outside this place the wearer is blind! Furthermore, the 
wearer knows that the crown can be removed only by 
touching the scepter to its top. The scepter is of electrum, 
with a gold ball at one end and a silver knob at the other. If 
the silver end is touched to the crown, the wearer is 
instantly snuffed out, turning to a fetid powder which 
cannot be brought back to life no matter what (wishes 
notwithstanding). If the golden knob is used upon the 
crown, the wearer can lift it from his or her head. Examina- 
tion of the throne will reveal a small replica of the crown 
inlaid in silver upon the lower front panel of the seat. If the 
silver end of the scepter is applied to this inlay, the throne 
sinks and reveals a 5‘ wide passageway. 
Each of these items is obviously valuable (25,000 g.p. for 
the crown, 12,500 g.p. forthescepter), but both arecursed, 
and if they are removed from the Tomb the possessor of 
either will be visited by a demon (type I) sent to reclaim 
the item and return it to the throne room - 2 such demons 
if a single character has both. 
(q.v.1. 
26. SMALL ROOM WITH A DOOR OF ELECTRIC BLUE: The door 
actually shimmers with a faint blue light when observed from 
within IO’ or so. When the door is touched, this gleaming 
8 
27. 
grows bright. A brass pull beckons to be used, and the door 
will open easily. Inside the western room there isonlydust.The 
eastern room is another matter: 
If this door is opened, the characters will see a low stone 
table upon which rests a large wooden sarcophagus.Various 
broken and looted chests, urns, and coffers are scattered 
about. Inside the sarcophagus are the parts of a mummy 
(not an undead, exactly, for at this time it is the mummified 
remains of a human) with wrappings partially undone and 
tattered, and a huge amethyst just barelyvisible between the 
wrappings covering the head. This 5,000 g.p. gem has an evil 
magic placed upon it, and if it is removed from the eyesocket 
the remains become a true mummy with the following specs: 
H.P.: 39 2 attacks/round due to haste: 2-13 h.p. damage: 
resist fire upon the wrappings make them impervious to 
normal flames, and the creature wears a ring of fire 
resistance. 
THE PORTAL OF SCINTILLATING VIOLET: This appears to be 
another small 10 x 10 room much like the 2 numbered 26. 
When the door is touched a faint lilac color which glowed 
faintly from a distance will shine forth a bright and cor- 
ruscating purple with tinges of sickly green. If the door is 
pulled open, the characters will see a bare chamber, with a 
small door before them on the north wall, and pairs of 
swords crossed behind shields hung upon the walls. There 
are 3 such sets on each of the walls to either hand, and 2 
sets on the north wall, 1 flanking each side of the door. If the 
threshold is crossed by any creature, 1 set will fly off the wall 
and attack the individual so doing. The 2 swords will both 
attack at the beginning and the end of each round, striking 
as if they were wielded by a 1 st level fighter, but being +I on 
both “to hit” and damage. This trio will so attack until they are 
destroyed or the one who violated their area is dead. Each 
item is AC 3 and requires 11 h.p. of damage to destroy; all hits 
will be taken by the shield first, as it always interposes itself. 
(SHOW GRAPHIC #27.) Surviving weapons and shields return 
to their former positions after the offender is hacked to pieces. 
The following spells will affect these items, and only the 
following spells: repulsion sends all 3 back to their original 
position; heat metal (or a rod of cancellation) will cause 1 to 
fall to pieces; transmute metal to wood will cause 2 to fall to 
the ground as motionless hunks of timber: disintegrate will 
destroy any and all of a set; enchant weapon will cause a 
sword to become a plain iron weapon. Worse still, if the 
threshold is crossed a 2nd time, still another pair of blades 
and a shield will attack, and each set will attack at 1 level 
better than the last set (2nd, 3rd, 4th, etc.. all the way to 8th), 
each will have 1 greater plus (the 1 st are +I, the 2nd +2, etc. all 
the way to +8 for the 8th set), each set is 1 armor class better 
(set 2 is AC 2, set 3 is AC 1, set 4 is AC 0. etc., all the way to the 
8th which is AC -4), and each set is 1 hit point harderto destroy 
(the2nd has12h.p.each,the3rdhas13h.p.each,etc.,allthe 
way to the 8th which has 18 hit points per item). Only after all 
sets are destroyed is it possible to enter the room. 
A. The Chamber of Hopelessness: Any creature unfortunate 
enough to be teleported here from area 25.8. is doomed, 
for their fate is clearly stated in glowing letters magically 
written on the north wall of the place: 
“YOU WHO DARED TO VIOLATE MY TOMB NOW PAY THE 
PRICE. STAY HERE AND DIE SLOWLY OF STARVATION, OR 
OPEN AND ENTER THE DOOR TO YOUR SOUTH WHERE 
CHOOSE, KNOW THAT I, ACERERAK THE ETERNAL, WATCH 
AND SCOFF ATYOUR PUNY EFFORTSAND ENJOYYOUR DEATH 
THROES.” 
A small fountain of water spills into a wall basin and drains 
away through side holes, so there is always plenty to drink. 
(It is impossible to flood the place, for there are hundreds 
of small drain holes in the walls and floor.) (DISPLAY 
ILLUSTRATION #27(A).) There are numetous skeletons here, 
CERTAIN BUT QUICK DEATH AWAITS - WHICHEVER YOU 

===== PAGE 11 =====
28. 
29. 
rotting equipment, and 30-300 each of s.P., e.p., g.p., and 
p.p. hurled about. Crushed gems and broken magic items 
are littered about - the work of insane victims and 
attacking swords. (Careful searching will find 2-20 
uncrushed gems of 10 g.p. base value, 1 unused potion of 
diminuation, and a +I flail.) If the door to the south is 
opened from this side, all of the swords and shields swoop 
from the walls to attack, but they will cease as soon as the 
character(s) retreats into the chamber to the north. 
THE WONDROUS FOYER: The narrow passage behind the 
throne leads to a landing and steps which funnel out to the 
south as they ascend. The 6 steps are made of onyx, pink 
marble, lapis, black marble, serpentine (golden) and 
malachite. Thewalls ofthechamberarecopper (untarnished 
and gleaming) panels set between rare woods inlaid with 
ivory. The ceiling is silver, formed so as to reflect and multiply 
light within the place. (USE GRAPHIC #28.) Upon the4th step is 
a large, cylindrical key of bronze (the SECOND KEY) for all to 
behold. It has an antipathy spell cast upon it, and any 
creature touching it must save versus magic at -2 (due to the 
strength of the dweomer). Those who fail the throw will never 
touch the key or allow it within 2' of their person under any 
circumstances. At the head of the steps are a pair of huge 
doors, and the key found upon the stair appears to fit these 
valves. 
THE VALVES OF MITHRIL: These doors are 14' wide and 28' tall. 
They are made of solid mithril, 3' thick, and impregnated with 
great magicks in order to make them absolutely spell and 
magic proof. Where thesevalves meet, at aboutwaist height, 
is a cup-like depression, a hemispherical concavity, with a 
central hole. The latter appears to be the keyhole for the 
SECOND KEY, but if this is inserted, the character so doing will 
receive 1-10 points of electrical damage, while the FIRST KEY 
will cause double that amount of damage to any so foolish 
as to insert it! The real key to these great gates is the scepter 
from 25.D. If the gold ball is inserted into the depression, the 
mithril valves will swing silently open. If the silver sphere is 
touched to the hemispherical cup the holder of the 
instrument will be teleported instantly to be spat out of the 
devil's mouth at 6., nude, while all non-living materials with 
him or her go to area 33., and the crown and scepter flash 
back to the throne. If the door is attacked by force it will not 
budge, but if it is scratched or nicked it will show red and ifcut 
by a sharp weapon it will begin to gush forth blood - the 
blood of all those who have died within the area oftheTomb! 
The red flow will cascade down the steps and fill the area to 
the top of the 1 st step in 6 rounds, and each round thereafter it 
will rise higher by 1 step. In 20 rounds it will completelyfill the 
foyer to the ceiling. 
A cure critical wounds applied to the valve will staunch the 
flow of blood, as will a heal, 2 cure serious wounds, or 4 cure 
light wounds spells. If magic is used against the blood, only 
the following spells will have any effect: 
Spell 
cone of cold 
create water 
disintegrate 
levitate 
polymorph 
purify water 
raise dead/ 
resurrection 
Results 
freezes blood and flow for 3 rounds 
turns blood to normal water 
destroys all blood 
coagulates the blood and moves it 
upwards to become a huge red ochre 
jelly 
creates 3-1 2 wights which attack 
turns all blood to a gas which 
weakens all in the area to 3 strength for 
1 day 
either spell destroys the blood and will 
bring a shade to stand on the top stair 
and bless all the paw so that they 
regain up to 10 lost hit points each 
and are completely refreshed 
Fire of any sort, magical or otherwise, turns the blood to a 
30. 
31. 
32. 
9 
poison gas which is absolutely fatal, and all characters in the 
'oyer area are dead, with no saving throw, while any in the 5' 
passage to the area of the throne will be slain unless they 
save versus poison at -4. 
THE FALSE TREASURE ROOM: This imposing chamber has a 
silvered ceiling, just as the foyer has, so it is bright. The walls are 
Df ivory with gold inlaid. The floor is polished (but common) 
agate. In each corner hulks a 9' tall statue of black iron. That 
to the northeast stands with a saw-toothed two-handed 
sword raised to strike; that to the northwest a huge, spike- 
ended mace; to the southeast the sculpture readies a 
wickedly spiked morning star, and the one in the southwest 
has a voulge. Each has a magical aura, but they are merely 
hunks of metal; they do nothing. Each has an evil aura as well, 
and the visage of each of these iron statues is most fearsome 
and terrifying. The room itself is lined with lead and has anti- 
magical properties, so no spells will workwithin the room, and 
no magical properties of items of any sort will properly 
function except to detect auras such as magic or evil. 
(DISPLAY GRAPHIC #30.) 
A. Bronze Urn: This gold filigreed container isvery large, and a 
thin stream of smoke issues from a tiny vent in its brass 
stopper which is sealed shut with gold fill. This gold must be 
pried out to open the urn. If the stopper is removed, an 
efreet will come forth. If the urn has been battered, 
knocked about, shaken, overturned, etc., the creature will 
be in a fury and attack. Otherwise, it will perform 3 services 
for the party and then depart. 
B. Granite Sarcophagus: The huge outer shell has the glyphs 
spelling ACERERAK on the lid in platinum (insets equal to 
100 coins which can be pried out). The far end ofthe thing 
is stove in and shattered. Inside can be seen bits of a 
wooden inner shell, a few bones, destroyed jewelry 
(stones pried out), torn bits of robes and windings, dust, 
and a broken staff of the magi (evident from the runes 
upon it). A shattered skull will roll out if the contents are 
poked around. (Why, the demi-lich has long been 
destroyed, but his magical traps somehow survived!) 
C. Iron Chests: Each of these massive iron boxes is set into 
the stone and has triple locks set with poison needle traps. 
Neither can possibly be moved, and both show marks of 
prying, battering, etc. The eastern chest holds 10,000 gems 
which will appear to be of not less than base 50 g.p. value 
each, no matter how they are tested in the dungeon. Each 
is actually a 1 g.p. quartz gem. The other contains 10,000 
copper pieces magicked to appear as platinum until they 
are removed to a distance of 13 miles from the Tomb, 
when their true nature becomes evident. 
D. It will require 3 persons of 16 or better strength to move any 
of the iron statues. This one hides a ring pull which will raise 
a small plug of stone and enable the Pam/ to enter a small 
chute which takes them IO' down to the corridor to the 
west. 
The 2 oneway doors to the north are actually a form of phase 
door which enable characters approaching from the north to 
go through corridors which are not actually existing in the 
normal world. No amount of trying can make it possible to 
find these passages from the south - be it passwall, wish, or 
whatever. Opening either of these doors, or the one to the 
east from the far side, causes a covered pit to come into 
phase in the area it is shown. This pit is otherwise exactly the 
same as others in the place. 
SECRET DOOR: The portal cannot be detected by any magic 
means, but careful inspection will discover that the wall at this 
location has a small opening that is metal-lined - obviously 
a keyhole! Any attempt to force the door open by physical or 
magical means will be useless. If the FIRST (gold key from 19.) 
KEY is inserted, the door will sink into the floor, a stone 
sheathed adamantite slab of tremendous thickness. There 

===== PAGE 12 =====
can be no real doubt that the end of the adventure - one 
way or another - is near. 
33. THE CRYPT OF ACERERAK THE DEMI-LICH: The smallish 10 x 20 
burial vault has an arched ceiling with a 25’ peak. There is 
absolutely nothing in the room, although there is a small 
depression a few inches deep and about 2’ square in the 
center of the floor. Careful inspection will discover a small 
hole in the middle of this depression - another keyhole! If the 
FIRST KEY is inserted herein, the individual doing so is blown 
upwards by the force of the resulting explosion of the key, and 
530 (5 d6) h.p. ofdamagewill besustained by that individual 
only. The SECOND KEY (from 28.) will fit within the hole and 
nothing untoward will occur. In fact, nothing whatsoever will 
happen until it is turned 3 times to the right in succession. 
Immediately when this is done a trembling will be felt, and the 
center of the south 15’ feet of the crypt floor will peak. (AT THIS , 
MOMENT BEGIN A COUNT TO 5. ANY CHARACTER UPON THE 
SOUTH 15‘ OF THE FLOOR AT THE END OF THE COUNT HAS RISEN 
UPWARDS WITH THE ASCENDING VAULT AND HAS BEEN SQUASHED 
TO JELLY AGAINST THE ARCHED ROOF!) The south 15’ of the 
crypt now is filled with a mithril vault. There is a door in the 
center of the device, with an inset ring. A hard pull will swing 
open a thick door. (DISPLAY GRAPHIC #33.) Inside are the 
following: 
- all items from characters teleported nude 
- 97 base 10 g.p. gems and 3 huge gems (a 10,000 g.p. 
peridot, a 50,000 g.p. emerald, and a 100,000 9.p. block 
opal) 
- 12 potions and 6 scrolls (determined randomly) 
- 1 ring, 1 rod, 1 staff, and 3 miscellaneous magic items 
- a +4 sword of defending and 2 cursed swords and 1 
The demi-lich Acererak also lingers in the crypt . . . 
The Demi-Lich: Ages past, a human magic-user/cleric of 
surpassing evil took the steps necessary to preserve his life 
force beyond the centuries he had already lived, and this 
creature became the lich. Acererak. Over the scores of years 
which followed, the lich dwelled with hordes of ghastly 
servants in the gloomy stone halls of the very hill where the 
Tomb is. Eventually even the undead life force of Acererak 
began to wane, so for the next 8 decades, the lich’s servants 
labored to create the Tomb of Horrors. Then Acererak 
destroyed all of his slaves and servitors, magically hid the 
entrance to his halls, and went to his final haunt, while his soul 
roamed strange planes unknown to even the wisest ofsages. 
Joining the halves of the FIRST KEY calls his soul back to the 
Prime Material Plane, and use of the SECOND KEY alerts the 
now demi-lich that he must be prepared to do battle in order 
to survive yet more centuries. 
All that now remains of Acererak are the dust of his bones and 
his skull resting in the far recesses of the vault. This bit is 
enough! If the treasure in the crypt is touched, the dust swirls 
into the air and forms a man-like shape. If this shape is 
ignored, it will dissipate in 3 rounds, for it can only advance 
and threaten, not harm. Any physical attackwill give it 1 factor 
of energy, however, and spell attacks give it 1 energyfactorfor 
every level of the spell used, i.e. a 3rd level spell bestows 3 
energy factors. Each factor is equal to a hit point, and if 50 
energyfactors are gained, the dust will form into a ghost(see 
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, MONSTER MANUAL) 
controlled by Acererak. and this thingwill attackimmediately. 
(The dust will waver and fall back if it is struck by blow or spell, 
as if suffering actual damage, so formation of the ghost is not 
too improbable.) 
If any character is so foolish as to touch the skull of the demi- 
lich, a terrible thing occurs. (USE ILLUSTRATION 33(A).) Theskull 
of Acererak rises into the air upon the touch, and it slowly 
scans the party. There are 2 jewels set into the eyesockets 
(50,000 g.p. rubies) and there are 6 pointed (marquis cut) 
diamonds set as teeth in the jaw (each diamond worth 5,000 
cursed spear of backbiting 
10 
g.p.). The demi-iich can tell which member of the party is 
the most powerful, and it will usually select a magic-user 
over a fighter, fighter over a cleric, a cleric over a thief. The 
soul of the strongest will be drawn instantly from his or her 
body and trapped within the right eye jewel, and the gem- 
eye will gleam with wickedly evil lights as the character‘s 
body collapses in a mass of corruption and moulders in a 
single round-totally gone. The skull will then sink down 
again, sated. if it is struck or touched a second time, it will 
again rise and drain the soul of the next strongest character 
into its other eye. This process also repeats through all 6 of 
the diamond teeth (so a total of 8 souls can be stolen) and if 
the skull is still intact and still molested, it will pronounce a 
curse upon the remaining characters which will teleport 
them randomly in a 100-600 mile radius, each cursed to 
some fate similar to a) always be hit by any opponent at- 
tacking or b) never making a saving throw or c) always los- 
ing all treasure without gaining any experience from it. The 
latter part of the curse can be removed by a remove curse 
spell, but the charisma of the character so treated will drop 
2 points immediately thereafter and remain there perma- 
nently (unless some magical means of increasing it is 
found). 
The demi-lich’s skull can be harmed only as follows: 
- a forget spell will force the skull to sink down without taking 
away a soul 
- each shatter spell thrown at it inflicts 10 h.p. of damage 
- a power word, kill pronounced from an astral or ethereal 
magic-user will destroy it. 
- only a fighter with a vorpal blade, a rangerwith a sword of 
sharpness, +5, or vorpal weapon, or a paladin with the 
like or even a +4 weapon can inflict damage upon the 
skull 
- an exorcise spell will cause it to sink as a forget does 
- a dispel evil spell inflicts 5 h.p. of damage 
- a holy word pronounced against it will inflict 20 h.p. of 
damage 
- a thief slinging one of the large gems found in the cryptwill 
inflict 1 h.p. of damage per 10,000 g.p. ofvalue, i.e. 1,5, or 
10 h.p. damage, but the gem is thereby shattered and 
even misses must be saved for versus a crushing blow or 
the gem is shattered from hitting a crypt wall. 
Acereraks skull takes 50 hit points before it is destroyed, and it 
is AC -6. If the skull is destroyed, each gem trapping a soul 
must make a saving throw versus magic as if it were the 
character trapped within. Those failing their save contain no 
life force - the demi-lich drained the soul and devoured it 
before being destroyed. Those which succeed still contain 
the character‘s soul, and this is evidenced by a faint inner 
light (and visible as a tiny figure within the gem ifviewed with 
true seeing, true sight or a gem of seeing.) The soul can be 
freed by crushing the gem, but some material body must be 
ready within IO’ distance to receive it - a clone, a 
simulacrum, a souless body of some sort. 
EXPERIENCE POINTS. THIS CONSIDERS ALL ACTIONS WITHIN THE 
TOMB OF HORRORS TO GAIN THE CRYPT. TREASURE TAKEN OUT 
SHOULD ADD AN ADDITIONAL 1 EXPERIENCE POINT FOR MRY 
2 G.P. OF VALUE. 
This ends theexpedition toTheTombof Horrors. We hope you 
and your players will have found it exciting, challenging, and 
rewarding. 
DESTRUCTION OF THE DEMI-LICH EARNS A SUGGESTED 100,000 

===== PAGE 13 =====
CHARACTER ROSTER FOR USE WITH THE TOMB OF HORRORS 
Class and level 
No. Race CI. Ft. M-U Th. str. I W D C Cha. 
1. H 14 I1 la 10 17 15 12 
2. H 14 16 12 la 16 16 14 
3. H 12(P) 17 14 15 la 16 17 
4. H 130) 16 15 14 17 18 16 
5. E 5 11 17 la 12 15 15 14 
6. D 9 18/91 9 I1 17 la I1 
7. H!3 I1 10 I1 12 la 16 12 - 
a. D 7 8 16 12 9 17 la 8 
9. H 9 17 10 17 15 I5 13 
10. %E 5 70) 6 18/62 15 17 16 16 12 
11. E 7 9 I1 16 10 la 15 16 
12. H 9 a 17 9 17 16 10 
13. H a 15 12 13 la la 10 
14. H a 12 14 16 17 15 18 
15. %E 5 6 13 a 13 17 16 I1 
16. H 6 12 13 18 17 16 15 
17. H 7(P) 14 10 10 15 15 17 
i a. G 4 50) 9 la 9 la 16 7 
20. Hg 4 5 10 10 8 17 16 11 
19. H 6 48/00 11 10 12 14 13 
Race: D = DWARF: E = ELF: %E = HALF-ELF: G = GNOME; H = HUMAN; Hg = HALFLING 
Class: (i) = ILLUSIONIST; (p) = PALADIN; (I) = RANGER 
SPECIAL ITEMS POSSESSED BY EACH CHARACTER 
Character 
Number Items 
I. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
a. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
displacer cloak, +I ring of protection, +2 dagger, 
wand of magic missiles 
+3 plate mail, +3 shield, +3 mace 
+I plate mail, +2 shield, +I flaming sword, ring of 
fire resistance 
+2 splint mail, +2 shield, magic bow, 10 +I magic 
arrows, +I sword 
+I chain mail, +3 shield, +2 short sword, scroll of 
4 spells (burning hands, disintegrate, dispel 
magic, levitate) 
+I ring mail, +3 shield, gauntlets of ogre power, 
+2 hammer 
+I leather armor, +I ring of protection, +I dagger, 
boots of speed 
cloak of protection +3, ring of invisibility, +I short 
sword, +I dagger, bag of holding (largest) 
+I plate mail, +I shield, staff of striking, scroll of 
2 spells (cure critical wounds, resurrection) 
+2 chain mail, +I shield, levitation boots, +I mace 
bracers of defense AC 5, wand of lightning, 
+2 dagger 
+4 ring of protection, wand of magic detection, 
rope of climbing 11 
Character 
Number Items 
13. +I splint mail, +I shield, +3 spear, potion of 
polymorph 
14. +I plate mail, +I shield, staff of striking, dust of 
appearance 
15. cloakof protection +I, +3sword, +I dagger, potion 
of healing 
16. +I scale mail, +I shield, cloak and boots of elven- 
kind, +I mace 
17. +I chain mail, ring of protection +I, crossbow and 
12 +2 bolts, potion of healing 
18. bracers of protection AC 4, boots of striding and 
springing, +I axe, +I dagger 
19. +I plate mail, +I shield, 2 javelins of lighfning, 
+I hammer, potion of flying 
20. robe of blending, +I ring of protection. sling of 
seeking, +I short sword 
Players must roll for their own hit points, decide upon what spells 
they will take, and list all equipment and otherweapons they are 
taking. As these are all substantial characters, it is safe to assume 
they could have any items listed as normally being for sale, but 
do not allow any to over-encumberthemsels.Theycan take up 
to 1,000 in coins of any lype, and 5,000 g.p. in gems of any base 
value, each if desired. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
ASSIGNING CHARACTERS TO PLAYERS 
Suggested Character Mixtures for Best Results Number of 
Players optional Option II Option III 
2 1 121318 1 12/5/40 1/2/a/9117120 
3 1121311 511 8/20 1 /2/4/5/9/16 5 thru 13 
9 4 thru 12 1 thru 9 5 thru 13 
10 5 thru 14 1 thru 10 10 thru 19 
Number of Characters per Player: It is difficult for the best of 
players to handle 3 characters, especially when these are not 
their own characters which they have grown familiarwith overthe 
course of many adventures. It is recommended that each player 
control no more than 2 characters, and if there are 6 or more 
players. each should have but a single character. 
Skill level and Magic Items: If your players are not experts, it is 
suggested that you allow them each an additional potion (but 
you should exclude giant strength and oil of etherealness) and 
possibly a cleric scroll of 3 or 4 spells. If the paw is relatively small 
and of lesser levels, pick one or more items of magic from those 
shown on the table above and distribute them amongst the 
characters adventuring. If your players are few, their skill level is 
near novice, and you do not believe that they will be able to 
handle multiple characters, add the magic items as suggested 
and then up each 1 level of experience from that shown on the 
roster. Do the same for total novices, and allow them a man-at- 
arms each as torch bearer and pack carrier. 
NOTE: Your players are free, of course, to take in their own 
characters should you decide to incorporate the TOMB OF 
HORRORS into your own campaign, but they should be of 
equivalent strength in terms of levels and magic items available 
to those given above. Iftheyareconsiderablyweaker, you should 
consider I) delaying use of this module until your players have 
obtained additional levels and/or magic items, or 2) offering 
“assistance” from some non-player source, say a local baron 
who’d like to build a summer castle on the spot of the TOMB and 
sends your players to “clean up” the area. Other similar ideas will 
readily suggest themselves with a little careful thought, but care 
should be taken to mesh the scenario with pre-existing 
conditions in your campaign. 
12 

===== PAGE 15 =====


===== PAGE 16 =====


===== PAGE 17 =====


===== PAGE 18 =====


===== PAGE 19 =====


===== PAGE 20 =====


===== PAGE 21 =====


===== PAGE 22 =====
, 

===== PAGE 23 =====


===== PAGE 24 =====


===== PAGE 25 =====
I' 

===== PAGE 26 =====


===== PAGE 27 =====


===== PAGE 28 =====


===== PAGE 29 =====


===== PAGE 30 =====


===== PAGE 31 =====


===== PAGE 32 =====


===== PAGE 33 =====


===== PAGE 34 =====


===== PAGE 35 =====
NS & DRAGONS@ F 
ND F0LIO"To 
maps, with comp 
&D aame svstemb 
bublir 
es WI 