
===== S3 PAGE 2 =====
LEVEL 1
11
12E
12
DOOR
DOUBLE DOOR
OPEN DOORWAY
BROWN CARD DOOR
GREY CARD DOOR
RED CARD DOOR
- 5
10
R
R CH
METERT
12]
12
12
- 12
R
VIOLET CARD DOOR
ORANGE CARD DOOR
YELLOW CARD DOOR
JET BLACK CARD DOOR
DROP TUBE
ON/OFF LIT AREA
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
DIMLY LIT AREA
UNLIT AREA

===== S3 PAGE 3 =====
LEVEL II
001a3 t
DOOR
• PILARS
SCALE: 1 SQUARE EQUALS 10 FEET
BROWN CARD DOOR
SPHINCTER
MACHINERY
HOLE IN DECK

===== S3 PAGE 4 =====
LEVEL
CAE GO
HOLD
CARSO
HOLE
CARGO
HDLD
CARGO
HOLD
CARGO
IN DIL S
80T
FLOOR
CAR GIO
HOLD
NICH
CLUB
DANCINE
CARGO
HELD V
DOOR
DOUBLE DOOR
OPEN DOORWAY
BROWN CARD DOOR
DROP TUBE
LIFT
FOLIAGE
VIOLET CARD DOOR
VINES
HOLD
CAR GO
HOLD
LOUNGE
13
CAEGI
1L0
CARGE
HOLDI
13
LOUNCE
4
4A
KITCHEN
CARGO
HOLD
HOLE IN CEILING
ON/OFF LIT AREA
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
DIMLY LIT AREA
UNLIT AREA

===== S3 PAGE 5 =====
LEVEL IV
LIFT
0 10 55
FENCE
FOLIAGE
FOLIAGE
WATER
FEED
STORAGE
SWAMP
STREAM
PATH
ASTRA
TIEW
LOUNGE
190 30
19
00M
27
BURROW
ON/OFF LIT AREA
BRIGHTLY LIT AREA
UNLIT AREA

===== S3 PAGE 6 =====
LEVEL V
TRAPDOOR
BULKHEAD WALL/
BROWN CARO DOOR
MOLO
LIFT
PILLARS
WATER
SPHINCTER

===== S3 PAGE 7 =====
LEVEL VI
CARGO
HOLD
-IP-
WOR NDUT
7
CARGO
HOLO
CIR CO
=0 L0
890-°
DOOR
DOUBLE DOOR
OPEN DOORWAY
BROWN CARO DOOR
V
G
CLEGO
EEMNASILM
-SE AT 5
-SEATS
UP-
DRESSIN
CARGO
-PRESSIN
E CATE
B
1
RO BE
ELACLY
•-IP-
ISENIS
TRAIN TN 3
GAE GO
HOLO
THEATER
CARGO
HO LD
10
FUIFT:
VIOLET CARD DOOR
GREY CARD DOOR
STAIRS
CURTAIN
LIFT
WATER
LOCKER
ST
STORAGE
4
LIFT
CAESO
HELD

===== S3 PAGE 8 =====
RoStAF B0
This item is only one of the many popular playing aids for
ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS® Fantasy Adventure
Game produced by TSR Hobbies, Inc. Other playing aids
for the AD&D™ game system currently available include:
Players Handbook (everything the AD&D player needs
to know]
Dungeon Masters Guide (the essential reference work
for DMs]
Monster Manual (over 350 monsters, with full explana-
tions and many illustrations)
DEITIES & DEMIGODS™ Cyclopedia (over a dozen pan-
theons given in AD&D terms to aid the DM in ex-
panding a campaign
AD&D Dungeon Masters Screen (combat fables, sav-
ing throws, psionics, and many other valuable refer-
ence tables for Dis and players]
AD&D Dungeon Masters Adventure Log (contains
many tables not on the DM Screen, as well as illus-
trations of armor and weapons and pages on which
to record all information needed about parties of
adventurers]
AD&D Non-Player Character Record Sheets
AD&D Player Character Record Sheets
AD&D Permanent Character Folder and Adventure
Record Sheets
Rogues Gallery (hundreds of pre-rolled characters,
usable as player characters or NPCs)
THE WORLD OF GREYHAWK™ Fantasy World Setting
(two full-color continental maps, with complete de-
scriptions of history, geography, and legends. Ap
proved for use with the AD&D game system)
Dungeon Module A1 (Slave Pits of the Undercity)
Dungeon Module A2 (Secret of the Slaver's
Stockade)
Dungeon Module A3 (Assault on the Aerie of the
Slavelords)
Dungeon Module A4 (In the Dungeons of the
Slavelords)
Dungeon Module C1 (Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan)
Dungeon Module C2 (Ghost Tower of Inverness)
Dungeon Module D1-2 (Descent into the Depths of
the Earth)
Dungeon Module D3 (Vault of the Drow)
Dungeon Module G1-2-3 (Against the Giants)
Dungeon Module I1 (Dwellers of the Forbidden
City)
Dungeon Module Q1 (Queen of the Demonweb Pits)
Dungeon Module 51 (Tomb of horrors
Dungeon Module S2 (White Plume Mountain)
Dungeon Module T1 (Village of Hommiet)
Other releases of additional items related to the AD&D™ game system are planned for the future, TSR Hobbies, Inc.
publishes a complete line of games, playing aids, and gaming accessories available from better hobby, game, and
department stores nationwide. If you desire a complete cafalogue, write to: TR Hobbles, Inc., POB 756, Lake Geneva,
WI 53147.
The designation "T'" is used to refer to trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc.
ISBN 0-935696-14-8
394-51543-9TSR0800

===== S3 PAGE 9 =====
Dungeon Module S3
Expedition to the Barrier Peaks
by Gary Gygax
AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 8-12
TROOTUS 80
This
module
was
the
official ADVANCED
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS@ Tournament scenario
at Origins
The author
wishes
to
express his thanks to Mr. Robert Kuntz who contributed substantial
been carefully revised and updated to conform to ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS game systems. Included herein
are background information for players, statistics for a party substantially the same as that used for the tournament, DM
notes, six level maps with encounter matrices, and numerous full color illustrations of scenes from the adventure in orde
to enhance the enjoyment of participants. There are also many new and special monsters designed for this scenario, and
they appear nowhere else. This module is located upon the Map of the World of Greyhawk (WORLD Of GREYHAWK
fantasy world setting from TSR).
If you enjoy this module, be sure and try any of the many other unique offerings in this line from TSR!
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada, Ltd
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors.
© 1980, 1981, TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
TSK
The Game Wizards
All Rights Reserved
TSR Hobbies, Inc.
POB 756
LAKE GENEVA, WI 53147
ISBN 0-935696- 14-8
© 1980 TSR Hobbies Inc.
PRINTED IN US
s module booklet is protectedunder the copyright lows of the United States of America Any reproduction or other unauthorized use of the material or artwork contained hereir
hibited without written consent of TSR Hobbies, li
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Advanced D&D and AD&D are trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc.&

===== S3 PAGE 10 =====
Advanced Dungeons & Dragons
Special Dungeon Module #S3
EXPEDITION TO THE BARRIER PEAKS
This module was begun early in 1976 when TSR was contem-
plating publication of a science fantasy role playing game.
Ward had already shown us some rough notes on META-
MORPHOSIS ALPHA; I thought it would be a splendid idea to
introduce Jim's game at Origins Il, and introduce the concept to
D&D players by means of the tournament scenario. | laid out
the tournament from old "Greyhawk Castle" campaign materi-
al involving a spaceship, and Rob Kuntz helped me to populate
the ruined vessel. Both this scenario and METAMORPHOSIS ALPHA
proved successful,
but while the latter has been continually
available since mid-1976 only a few copies of the tournament
dungeon used for Origins II have been around. METAMORPHO-
SIS ALPHA is currently beging rewritten and expanded for a
major new edition, and GAMMA WORLD game is highly popu-
lar too. As this module offers a unique and challenging blend of
fantasy and science fantasy role playing, it seemed logical to
reintroduce it to the public. What could be more logical than to
make available a scenario which blends the two role playing
approaches into a single form? Now, designed to be playable
with ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS rules, The
Expedition to the Barrier Peaks will serve as both an
exciting insertion into your campaign and as a primer on how
to combine "science" into your fantasy role playing. I hope that
you will enjoy reading and playing it as much as | enjoyed
WORLD OF GREYHAWK MAP LOCATION: The mountains
northwest of the city of Hornwood in the Grand Duchy of Geoff.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION: The Grand Duchy of Geoff has
recently been plagued by a rash of unusually weird and terrible
monsters of unknown sort. This western area, particularly the
mountain fastness which separates the Grand Duchyfrom the Dry
Steppes, has long been renowned for the generation of the most
fearsome beasts, and it has been shunned accordingly - save
for a handful
of hardy souls with exceptional abilities and
sufficient wealth to build stout strongholds to ward off the attacks
of the predatory creatures intesting the rugged lands thereabout.
Within the last few months, however, a walled town not far distant
from the area, and four small fortresses as well, were destroyed by
mysterious attacks! The remaining barons and lords have
preserved in brine several partially decomposed corpses found
on or near the sites of the ravaging. While these strange bodies
are assumed to have belonged to the forces which were
responsible for the destruction, the remains were too far gone to
learn anything other than they were
of creatures heretofore
unknown to even the wisest sages of Geoff. The urgent plea for aid
accompanied these
gruesome corpses
ignored, and the Grand Duke acted immediately. Choosing
several of his doughtiest henchmen to lead the
expedition, he
called upon the other powers of the state to likewise furnish their
minions for the expedition as well. Thus, the Society of the
Magivestre, the Fellowship of the Blinding Light, the Magsmen's
Brotherhood, and the High Lord of Etvendom (at Hochotve) also
selected the bravest of adventurers and equipped them
to accompany the expedition as their representa-
tives A total of 15 have assembled beneath the pennoned turrets
of the Grand Duke's mighty castle near Gorna.
There it was learned that
several unconfirmed reports have
related that monsters have been disgorged from a gated cave at
random intervals. The entrance to this place is high upon a rocky
face, and sheathed in armor. This protection has purportedly
frustrated all attempts to
explore the space beyond the metal
valve - although several search parties have entirely dis-
appeared, so it is possible they entered but never returned. Your
expedition must find out exactly what this cave is, what is causing
the monsters to come forth, who is responsible, and how to
prevent future incursions. In addition, any other
information
regarding this mysterious locale, its strange denizens, magical
devices, or unusual weaponry is highly desirable. His High
Radiance, Owen III, has assured all of the concerned parties that
whatever information is gained will be given to all, and wealth
found will be shared according to the contribution each
individual or representative group makes to the overall success of
the expedition. If necessary, the Grand Duke has vowed to send
forth an army to lay waste to the offending place and extinguish
every living thing therein. Should your expedition not meet with
total success, this step will be considered, but His High Radiance
personally doubts such extreme measures will be required
considering the strength of the expedition and the ability of its
members. The Grand Duke feels assured that you will certainly
locate the person or thing responsible for the troubles plaguing
Geoff and eliminate him, her, or it from the face of the land.
Your party set forth from Gorna a sennight ago, and for the past
two days have been climbing higher into the crags of the Barrier
Last night was spent in the keep of the only Baron
remaining in the area - and he was fulsome glad for your
company. This morning, as the eastern horizon turned from pearl
gray to rosy pink, a score of the Baron's retainers guided the
expedition towards the unknown area. It is now afternoon, and
you have set up camp in a hidden dell but a few bowshots
the strange entrance. The men-at-arms have been detailed to
guard the supplies and mounts at the camp while you go
onward immediately. They will await your return for four full days
before returning to the keep. Gathering your personal gear, you
are now climbing the steep slope of the dell's north side, passing
the rim, and forcingyourwaythrough a dense growth oftrees and
undergrowth. There, across a field and beyond a rocky rise, awaits
NOTES FOR THE DUNGEON MASTER ONLY
After your players have had a chance to digest the background
information, have them order the party in the manner they desire
- typical open field order, 20' corridor order, and 10°
corridor
order. If they are to take the personae of the characters originalty
used, pass out sheets so they may record the data. Each
participant can play the role of one, two, or even three of the
characters.
Do not be surprised if one or more of the better
players are suspicious of what they are about to get into, for the
discerning will have noted the hints given in the introduction.
Be certain that you are quite familiar with the entire module, and
read each encounter section carefully. Be sure to display
illustrations at the appropriate time, and allow players to view
them as long as they like - just keep track of the minutes and
rack off rounds accordingly.
generally remains
completely
functional.
corridors are not lit or are dimly lit and these are darkly
screened. Certain
areas are lightly screened; these are sections
where the lighting is very bright. White areas have
full lighting,
but rooms are lit only when a panel beside the door is touched
darkly screened areas = no light or dim light, 60' vision
lightly screened areas = bright light
unscreened areas = on/off lights
EXCEPTION: all 'tween decks areas are unlit and level IV has
and dark periods.
2

===== S3 PAGE 11 =====
Scale is 10' per square and shown on the level maps. Ceiling
height variations are likewise shown thereon. Doors and
hatchways need special attention, for they require color cards to
function, so standard door symbols can not be employed, and
care must be taken to correctly
recall which letter code
represents which order of card. The letter symbols for doors (or
color of card to activate a deck hatchway) are:
Go gray card
R a red card
Y = yellow card
0 = orange card
V = violet card
B = brown card
J = jet black card
Whenever the party approaches a standard door, display
ILLUSTRATION #1 There are some doors which will open merely
by pressing upon the panel beside them, and such portals are
indicated by the standard door symbol. Open doors are shown
as: → F. Drop chutes are described in the matrix to level I. The
UP side is always towards the ship's hull, the DOWN is always
towards the interior; this is coded
"U" and "D" respectively. Drop
chutes with full anti-gravity are coded with the letter "A" in the
center, and these tubes are brightly lit. Those in which the anti-
gravity is NOT functioning, but in which the grasp handles still
move are coded with the letter "G" in the center (to indicate that
gravity is in effect); these tubes are only dimly lit. Non-functioning
drop chutes are coded with the letter "N°;
gravity nor do their handles move. and they are completely
dark. Drop chutes are illustrated on the map thus:
U
(N)
U
(A)
UÂD
D
OÊU
ILLUSTRATION #2 illustrates a typical tube. Note that the
illustration shows a sealed sphincter above, indicating that the
level above is sealed off. (In this case, of course, the level above is
gone, when this module of the ship was blasted free in the
cataclysm which destroyed the vessel.) Similar closing devices
will be noted by users of a drop tube, but the mechanisms will be
open. Important note: Small, broad doors will be noticeable in
the drop tube between levels Land III and and VI These are
access doors to the 'tween decks
areas. They are keyed to
All radiation areas are matrixed with the numerals 13 regardless
of level, except on level IV where no hazard exists. Each matrix
includes a key describing the effects of exposure to this radiation.
Cross hatched areas 'tween decks are areas of possible danger
from generators and other equipment. These dangers are
described in the appropriate places.
The jagged area of level || ('tween decks area) is a hole blasted in
the deck, and thereisorresponding area marked on the map
for level | which indicates where this opening occurs in the
overhead. See the appropriate matrix for details.
Be certain to employ the illustrations as indicated - or whenever
players are in an area with a graphic depiction and request to be
shown the illustration again.
Emphasize the strange flora and fauna on level IV and then show
them the appropriate illustrations! It is also important to note that
the lighting on this level is an exception to the standard. The entire
level will light up for 14 hours and then go dark for 7, ie. the lights
go out suddenly and return 42 turns later. Keep track of entry time
and turns within the ship!
COLORED CARDS
Each of these cards are rectangular bits of nearly indestructible
plastic about three inches long by two inches wide. Since
characters should not be aware of the actual nature of the
different technological items found on the ship, descriptions have
been provided for most of the unusual items that they might find.
Colored cards will appear as heavily leaded panes of colored
glass. No clues to their function should be given, as the
characters must figure out their proper use. While some colors are
specific, most will serve to open doors to areas which are keyed to
lesser rank color. The colors are given below, with descending
order of rank and general description of the rank/occupation-
profession of holder each was designed for. Note that robots and
androids will note color by means of theirvisual sensors, provided
the card is held forth in a manner which enables the scanning of
its surface.
GRAY
ship commander and top officials
RED
police/security officials
YELLOW*
medical officers
ORANGE
VIOLET
security personnel
technicians
BROWN
crew and maintenance workers
JET BLACK
passengers/colonists
*Yellow cards will not trigger orange entry locks.
To trigger an entry, the card is slipped into the proper slot and
when the door/access opens, the card is dropped into the return
An improper card triggers an alarm, a low buzzing sound, and the
card is held by the lock.
THE SPACESHIP
Sometime
else, a large exploration-colonization expedition of
human origln was overtaken in the course of its journey by a
deadly plague. In a vain effort to halt the spread of the virus, the
modular sections of the vessel were sealed and then separated.
each left to its own fate. The section concerned here was drawn
through a black hole and spewed into the universe
the
World of Greyhawk fantasy setting exists. Chance brought it
to that very planet, and its computersand robotics brought it to an
intact landing.
This process, however, caused an earth tremor, and a landslide
buried the ship section for several decades. Then a computer
malfunction sent worker robots to a cargo hatch to discharge
material,
and when these robots found the hatch blocked by
fallen earth and stone, they promptly cleared it and unloaded the
requisite cargo - unfortunately
for the inhabitants of the area, for
the holds contained various alien fauna and flora, and the
offloading freed these creatures from stasis. Some died
immediately, some lived for a time, and a few species prospered
and propagated.
Recently, another earthquake uncovered an upper air lock, and
the
tremor caused the
same computer malfunction, so
worker robots again cleared the lower cargo lock and period
ically discharged more of the unwanted "goods".
START: The expedition has just topped the rise and gained
their
first view of the metal doored "cave". At this point SHOW PLAYERS
ILLUSTRATION #3 which depicts the hillside where erosion has
exposed two doors - a small upper door (through which the
party must enter), and a large lower cargo hatch (which will open
only when the party is inside and certain conditions prevail).
WHENEVER THE PARTY APPROACHES FOR THE FIRST TIME THE SMALL
DOOR WILL BE OPEN. It will remain open for six full turns (1 hour); it
will then close for 20 hours and reopen for another six turns. As the
men-at-arms will wait exactly four days, the party had better be
on its toes and not too timid
Entry is from the south side ofthevessel. When the party enters they
will see a metal room, about 1 8' deep and 20' wide, with a curving
south (rear) wall. At that moment, the outer door will silently shut
and the 20' wide inner door will part to reveal the 60' by 60' entry
area with drop tube (non-functioning) to the lower levels. The "V"
doors inside and flanking the air lock (and the one to the far north
as well) are access to the space suit storage racks - as well as
emergency means of entry/egress to the air lock. Naturally, the
party will not be able to utilize these portals without a violet or
higher level color card
3

===== S3 PAGE 12 =====
KEY TO LEVEL I: OFFICIALS, OFFICERS,
AND TECHNICIANS QUARTERS
WANDERING MONSTERS:
Encounter occurs 1 in 12, check each turn.
SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE:
1. 9-16 "vegepygmies" with 2-5 dog-creatures (ILLUSTRATION #4)
2. police
robot
(ILLUSTRATION #5)
3. 2-3 displacer beasts
4.
worker
robot (ILLUSTRATION #6)
5. lurker above
6 9-16 "vegepygmies" with 2-5 dog-creatures (ILLUSTRATION #4)
Vegepygmies, Police and worker robots are detailed below.
NORTHERN HEMISPHERE:
1.
worker robot
2.
14-24
3.
"vegepygmies" (ILLUSTRATION #7)
2-5 shadows
4.
5.
police
robot (ILLUSTRATION #5)
14-24
"vegepygmies"
(ILLUSTRATION #7)
6.
1-2 will-o'-wisps
NOTE: Whenever the party is before a door use ILLUSTRATION #1
The metal around the upper slot will be color keyed, if applicable.
DROP TUBES: As previously noted, these four devices are in
different states of functioning. Each tube is a cylinder with an
opening on both sides. Inside are two tracks opposite each
other, running down thevertical length ofthe shaft. Each track has
a series of handles spaced eight feet apart. One of these tracks
will be moving up and the other will be moving down in all tubes
that are operational. Use ILLUSTRATION #2 to aid in describing
the drop tubes. In those which anti-grav still functions, the
individual need only step in, float weightlessly, and grasp a
passing handle to be borne in whichever direction is desired. At
the top and bottom of the tube the handles fold into the wall to
complete a circuit. In the non-operational tube, of course, the
handles do not move at all, but they will support up to400 pounds
of weight. The tube which still functions mechanically, but which
has no anti-gravity, can be used if the characters firmly grasp a
handle prior to stepping into the chute; if any character attempts
to step into the tube and then grasp a handle, allow a base 10%
chance of success, +5% for each point of dexterity above 6.
Failure equals a fall which will almost certainly prove fatal from the
upper level, allowing 1d6 for each 10' of vertical distance fallen.
UNNUMBERED ROOMS: These rooms are typically apartments,
activity rooms (those with doors which require no color card),
and utility/maintenance/storerooms. Unless noted by a number
code each such area is
furniture or rotting goods therein, and from 0-3 (d4,
inanimate skeletons of generally
is worthless or in bad condition, the furnishings plastic or metal,
and only bits of rag or odd pieces of junk can be found
DINING ROOMS: The two large ones to the west have mess tables
and were cafeteria-like places. The three smaller ones to the east
were for the higher-ups, and they contained tables and chairs. All
five of these areas are now in ruins. The furnishings are jumbled.
and there are quite a number of skeletons and bones strewn
about. They have nothing of value within them.
KITCHENS: Even/thing which was possibly useful and not bolted
down has been removed from these areas. However, there are still
computer operated food dispensers as indicated in each
kitchen. Each kitchen will have some bare counter space and a
number of unused trays about. Along one wall is a bench with a
number of metal boxes resting on it. Each box has a darkcolored
glass door in the front of it and arranged beside these are a
number of square metal plates (selector buttons). On top of each
box is a short, black cylinder (temperature control knob). Inside
each box are a number of shelves spaced close together. Along
other walls are a fine metal mesh (microphone/speaker grille)
with a rivet (call button) below it. Next to these is a long, narrow
door that opens to a small shelf-like compartment. Near the
entrance is a dark glass plate with four rivets below it. (This was the
daily menu screen. The riiets were control buttons for it. The menu
screen no longer works.) If food is dispensed, it will be sewed in a
compartmented tray of a horn-like material (plastic). There is a
20% chance that each machine that is tried will serve. There are
eight per kitchen, and not less than two will function, but one of
the functioning
machines has a 50% chance of dispensing
poisonous food. If pygmies are encountered in a kitchen area
they will gain +2 on "to hit" and on damage due to their ferocious
reaction at seeing their food supply threatened. At least one will
immediately return to their home area and gather the whole tribe
GAME ROOMS: These rooms originally housed various amuse-
ment devices of mechanical and electronic nature. The
mechanical ones have been broken and looted, but the
electronic ones are still functional. If the party members have any
of the coinage used on the ship they can get rid of it here
"shooting" at spaceships, monsters, etc. You may optionally
include any sort of gambling devices You wish here - slot
machines, black jack, etc. How you run such games is strictly up
to you. Describe machines as brightly colored boxes with various
slots, buttons, wheels, weapons, etc. as component parts. There
are also several standard shooting gallery games
include guns with handles bolted to tables, others with cables
coming out of them, and other various things like this. Players
should be told that they are mysterious metal shaped objects
unless they have found such weapons or have encountered
creatures using them. In this case, they should be told they see
objects similar to those they have already seen. If any
character spends a turn or more practicing with these shooting
galleries, trying to learn how to handle
specifically stated), they may be allowed a -1 on their die rolls on
the charts when attempting to learn how to use a similarweapon.
LOUNGES: These areas were once very posh and comfortable,
but they are now messy. There are torn easy chairs, small tables
broken and
overturned, broken drink and
snack dispensers,
rubble and ashes from fires, bones and skulls, and some few
personal items in the deep folds of lounge furniture lost during the
last few hectic days before the plague took everyone. Roll a d6 for
searched. Check once only. The treasure
1 - notes on escaped intellect devourer (level Il)*
2 - 1-3 ampules of serum which will cure any disease
injected**
* 3 pee i rey worth 90 0 30 9. each
5
- jet black card
6
- violet or orange card (50%/50%)
*must use comprehend languages to understand; it will detail
where the creature has been confined; after the first 1 is rolled a
brown card will be found thereafter
**70% potent, 20% neutral, 10% poison
MEETING ROOMS: These areas contain various long, fixed tables,
chairs, broken communications panels (bent metal and broken
wiring), and many skeletons. There is nothing of value, and
anything loose has been taken away.
RECREATION AREA: This room was for various group participation
games and similar activities. The equipment and furniture is now
destroyed or taken. There are many piles of litter and skeletons in
the place. The party can spend many turns searching here and
find absolutely nothing usetul.
MEDICAL AREAS: The main records office and examination clinic
is in the central complex square. A robotic recording instructs
anyone entering to come back tomorrow, as all personnel are
absent; emergency cases can report to MED 1 or MED 2 for
4

===== S3 PAGE 20 =====
KEY TO LEVEL IV: BOTANICAL GARDENS,
ROOKERY, AND MENAGERIE
WANDERING MONSTERS:
Encounter occurs 1 in 4, check each turn:
1. four-winged bird
7.
four-winged bird
2. three legged monkeyoid
8. squirreloid
3. rabbitoid
9. tree lizardoid
4. white, multi-legged grub 10. rabbitoid
5. ratoid
11. 1' grasshopperoid
6. six-eyed toad
12. rabbitoid (ILLUSTRATION #42)
Note: All encounters are with HARMLESS creatures unless keyed in
the matrix below.
Immediately upon setting foot on this deck it will be apparent to
the party that it is teeming with life. A number of calls, whistles,
screams, and similar sounds can be heard. This noise does not
reach the upper walkway due to a sonic screen. Those areas not
covered with foliage will be spread with dead leaves and
vegetable matter, bones,
rubbish, husks, andsoforth, and earth is
slowly spilling onto heretofore bare metal decks. Small creatures
- animals, birds, insects, reptiles - can be seen darting here and
there.
WHEN THE PARTY ENTERS THE LEVEL DISPLAY EITHER ILLUSTRATION
#31 or #32 AS APPLICABLE.
TIERS: The whole botanical garden area is designed to give the
impression of naturalness and space. There are tiers rising along
the boundary of the place, each being about 5' higherthan the
next. Likewise, a tier descends towards the central
the islet in the center of that body is tiered in 10' heights. These
walls are made to appear as natural stone and are generally
obscured by vegetation.
SMALL ANIMAL BURROWS: Artificial burrows carefully built into the
outer layers of tiers.
burrows by means of the work spaces underneath the rising tiers.
These burrows are illustrated as a "C" shape representing the entry
and an "o" or oval representing
the den area. They are large
enough to permit the entry of a gnome or halfling.
WALKWAYS: The flagged walkways are shown by dotted lines. The
circular dotted areas are resting places with stone benches.
Vegetation is so thick as to make it impossible to tell what
direction a pathway goes. The "S" marks on the circular areas of
are concealed entrances to the 'tween decks area
Serviceway lanes under the tiers have their access in the 10' wide
passage between the garden area and the periphery areas.
Small, latched metal doors give into the den portions of the
burrows.
STREAMLETS
AND POOLS: The solid lines
small streams
of
running water. They vary in depth from 1' to 2' or so and are about
across shelved from 2' depth at the edge to about 10' (despite
some siting) in the center. Life abounds in and near them -
insects, colorful fish, amphibians, and so forth.
SWAMP as indicated on the level map is an area of the garden
where underground piping leaks badly. Combined with the rise of
the central lake, a boggy area has occurred with water from 1' to
3' or so deep between hummocks of vegetation.
LAKE: This body of water was formerly a large, natural aquarium
for the enjoyment of upper echelon personnel. Various water
creatures of a harmless sort, or marine life confined to water and
not overly dangerous, could be viewed from above and below in
the under-islet viewing chamber (see islet, below). It still has
numbers of fish breaking its surface now and then, as well
as
reptilian
and amphibian sorts of creatures along its verge. (See
cross-section of Underislet Observatory for lake depths.)
Bridge access to the islet is illustrated in graphic #32 and #33, if
the latter is applicable This is the only normal approach.
(See 18., below, for details of what will be attracted if any person
peers over the edge of the bridge.)
ISLET: This centerpiece originally was the setting for the loveliest of
exotic flora and its attendant fauna. There is no path on the small
land space, but the way leads directly to a pair of doors which
open at a touch of the key plate.
Underislet Marine Observatory
is illustrated in cross-section and
by ILLUSTRATION #25.
The stairway spirals down to 50', 70' and
100' depth observation floors. If the ship's lights are on theviewers
will see various forms of large and small fish, and have a one in six
chance of getting a glimpse of the "frog-thing" (18.) Glints of
gems will be seen from the lake bed! If they use lights in the
observatory they absolutely will not only see that creature, but it
will begin smashing at the plastiglass observation windows to
get
at the tender morsels within. The chance to break through is 5%
per round. Attempts will cease as soon as the light is extinguished
or the party is out of the monster's sight.
A small closet on the lowest level of the marine observatory can
be opened with a violet card. Inside are a half dozen wet suits with
breathing apparatus in flat chest packs which attach to full
bubble-type
headgear,
swimming
foot fins,
and back pack
propulsion devices.
• USE ILLUSTRATION #26.
From 2-4 workable
sets can be garnered from the six there, but there is a 10% chance
per item that lock of technical knowledge will cause the item to
malfunction when the wearer enters the water. The chest
breathing apparatus will function for 9 turns, and then a buzzing
sound will be emitted to indicate that 3 turns of time remain
before the pock must be recharged. The back propulsion device
has a lever trigger which shoots forth a gas jet; under water this
propels the wearer at 12"
movement rate for 6 rounds before
becoming useless. If used on the surface, it causes an
uncontrollable hopping. The device can be shut off after one
round and then turned back on
The rear wall of this closet has another small door keyed to a violet
card, and this opens to a smaller chamber - on air lock. If there
are persons within the 4' × 8' room when the door is closed, it will
first fill with water, and then an outer hatch will open. The noise of
this is 75% likely to attract 18., the Froghemoth (q.v.).
LETTERED AND NUMBERED ENCOUNTERS:
A. DEADLY PURPLE BLOSSOM PLANT (see 5., below).
B. DEADLY TRI-FLOWER PLANT (see 5., below).
C. DEADLY SNAPPER-SAW PLANT (see 5., below).
D. THE HORRID PLANT (see 5., below).
E. GLOBE PALM (see 5., below).
Be certain not to confuse B designation plant encounters with
B( brown) color card keyed doors. Also remember that S denotes
a concealed hatchway to the service deck beneath.
1. 8 LEECHOIDS: USE ILLUSTRATION #27. AC 7, MV 3", HD 2+2, hp
15, 14, 4x12, 11, 10, #AT 1, D 1-4. These swamp creatures are
nearly identical to the giant leeches common elsewhere. The
victim must save versus poison, however, for otherwise the
next round he or she will go into a hallucinatory state and lay
down in the swamp (duration 3 turns). Blood drain is 2 hit
points per round until dead, but the victim can easily drown
first.
2. LOW GRASS PATCH: USE ILLUSTRATION #28.
This is the deadly
boring grass, a mutated, carnivorous plant which attacks any
living thing which rests upon it. The blades are corkscrewed
and they will immediately bite into exposed flesh, inflicting
from 5-20 hit points of damage that round, and like amounts
on each successive round. On the second and each
successive rounds the victim must save versus poison or be
paralyzed. Any wound inflicted by this stuff slows the victim to
50% of normal movement, and this slowing remains for 1-4
days or until a neutralize poison spell or device is applied.
12

===== S3 PAGE 30 =====
WEAPONS DATA
Blaster Pistol: USE ILLUSTRATION #52.
Range: S=3", M=6", L=9"
Power Disc Drain: 1/use
Rate of Fire: 2/round
Damage: 5-30 hit points
Save: Unarmored = 1/½ damage; armored = no damage (but save
When found, this item will usually be folded. It weighs about 1%
Ibs. and will unfold to about 1 foot. It is composed of a U-shaped
section of metal rod with a black rivet on one end and an
attached piece of thick glass mounted in a frame. This glass is
about the size of a hand mirror. On one side of the frame are 2
raised discs, while on the other is a fine mesh, mounted on a rod.
The two sides of the glass are dark on one side (the firing side)
and clear on the other (the viewing side). In the hinge joining the
handle and glass frame is a slot about the size of a coin.
The pistol is operated by turning the top dial. On the viewing side
of the screen, crosshairs and range figures (in an unreadable
language) will appear. The second dial will magnify the scene
slightly. Once a target is selected, the pistol is fired by pressing the
black button in the handle.
Saving throw is versus petrifaction. Armor which does not save
effectively destroyed. Each time armor is hit by a blaster its
adjusted thereafter by -3 cumulative, or in the
shield, -2 and the shield is destroyed (or no minusesforthe armor
is destroyed), i.e.
is being destroyed in
the process of saving its wearer. Shields of less than +3 value are
always destroyed from the first hit by a
The rifle must first be unfolded and then the left arm is thrust
through the collar. This band will automatically
grip so that the gun need not be held constantly. It will only
when the blue button is pushed.
one of the colored settings is pushed. The black button on the U-
shaped handle is pushed to fire. The shot originates from the
B
Blaster Rifle: USE ILLUSTRATION #53.
Range: S=5", M=10", L=15"
Area of Effect: 1' beam or special
Power Disc Drain: 2/use
Rate of Fire: /round
Damage: Disruption or special
Save: All vs petrifaction see below
As with the blaster pistol, this item will also be usually found in a
folded-up state, about 11½' long. When unfolded, it is about 3'
long, It weighs nearly 5 Ibs. It appears to consist of jointed metal
rods, a curved metal plate, a hardened leather band or collar
and a pane of glass, framed and mounted on the end of a rod
There is a black rivet at the end of the U-shaped rod. The metal
plate has 3 raised, colored bars - black, white, and red - and a
coin-shaped slot above them. There is a blue rivet on the side
above the collar. The band is made of a hardened leather or
may be seen. The glass is thick and dark on both sides. On one
side of the frame is a metal mesh mounted on a small rod.
The effects of the settings
are:
BLACK - Disruption beam setting usable to maximum range.
This beam will vaporize anything short of hull metal
when it hits. The beam affects up to six cubic feet of
material. When an individual creature is the target a
save is applicable. Shields are automatically de-
stroyed, armor and protection devices must also be
saved for. If save is successful individual takes 5-30 hit
points, and saving throws for armor and/or protection
devices is at -5 against next blaster (pistol or rifle)
attack. Target creatures are stunned for 1-4 rounds
WHITE - Heat beam setting effective out to medium range. A
wave of heat sweeps out in a 4' beam, and all in its
path must save. Metallic armor reduces saving throw
by -7, shields by -2, but magical bonuses are added
ie. magic plate (+3) and shield (+3) would reduce
the chance of saving by 9, but magical bonuses (+6
in this example) adjust that to only a -3. Creatures
failing to save are melted, those saving take 5-20 hit
points of damage and lose 1-6 points of strength for
1-6 turns due to heat exhaustion.
RED - Flame plane setting effective only to short range. A
horizontal plane cuts a triangular area out to 5"
(weapon's short range), with a 2%" base. Inflam-
mable materials in this plane start burning, and
creatures take either 4-24 hit points of damage or
2-12 hit points if they successfully save. This setting
does not lower armor values against successive
saving throws, as it does not harm armor.

===== S3 PAGE 40 =====
The Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Game Family
PLAYERS HANDBOOK. This hardbound volume contains everything the player needs to know in
AD&D™ fantasy adventures. Within it are complete information on characters, levels,
equipment, spells, and more.
DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE. The hardbound book of essential reference information for the Dungeon
Master. Including combat and saving throw tables, magic items, wandering monsters, how to
DM a game and campaign, etc.
MONSTER MANUAL. A hardbound compendium of the creatures inhabiting the AD&D fantasy world.
Over 350 descriptions of monsters, from Aerial Servant to Zombie, profusely illustrated.
THE WORLD OF GREYHAWK. This work provides a complete campaign milieu in which to base
adventures and characters, place dungeons, etc. Two large full-color maps, a folder, and a
32-page booklet full of ready-made historical and geographical information. Suitable for use
with Advanced D&D™ game systems.
DUNGEON MASTERS SCREEN. Actually two laminated reference screens, one for normal combat,
saving throws, and other oft-needed information, and another for psionic combat. With full
color illustrations.
PLAYER CHARACTER RECORD SHEETS
PERMANENT CHARACTER FOLDER AND ADVENTURE RECORD SHEETS
NON-PLAYER CHARACTER RECORD SHEETS
These three products are designed for various types of character record keeping, and are
made for the convenience of player and Dungeon Master alike. All are three-hole drilled for
easy notebook storage.
THE ROGUES GALLERY. An aid for the harried Dungeon Master, this booklet contains hundreds of
ready-made non-player characters, as well as caravans, bandit groups, dungeon parties,
and more.
MODULES
Every AD&D module is a ready-to-play adventure setting, populated with appropriate
monsters, treasures, tricks, and traps, and including maps, background intormation, and
histories. Though each individual module is designed to stand on its own, several series are
specially made to form a connected progression of adventures.
Dungeon Module A1 (Slave Pits of the Undercity)
Dungeon Module A2 (Secret of the Slaver's Stockade)
Dungeon
Module A3 (Assault on the Aerie of the Slavelords)
Dungeon
• Module A4 (In the Dungeons of the Slavelords)
Dungeon
Module C1 (Hidden Shrine of Tamoachan)
Dungeon
Module C2 (Ghost Tower of Inverness)
Dungeon Module D1-2 (Descent into the Depths of the Earth)
Dungeon
Module D3 (Vault of the Drow)
Dungeon Module G1-2-3 (Against the Giants)
Dungeon
Module 11 (Dwellers of the Forbidden City)
Dungeon Module Q1 (Queen of the Demonweb Pits)
Dungeon Module S1 (Tomb of Horrors)
Dungeon Module S2 (White Plume Mountain)
Dungeon Module T1 (Village of Hommlet)
The designation "M" is used to refer to trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc.

===== S3 PAGE 55 =====
14

===== S3 PAGE 70 =====
29
80

===== S3 PAGE 90 =====
48
5

===== S3 PAGE 100 =====
58