
===== PAGE 1 =====


===== PAGE 2 =====
ungeon odule X2 
Castle Amber 
(Chateau d’ Amberville) 
AN ADVENTURE FOR CHARACTER LEVELS 3-6 
Trapped in the mysterious Castle Amber, you find yourselves cut offfrom the world you know. The castle isfraught with peril. Members of the 
strange Amberfamily, some insane, some merely deadly, lurk around every corner. Somewhere in the castle is the key to your escape, but can 
you survive long enough to find it? 
This module contains referee notes, background information, maps, andexploration keys intendedfor use with theD&D€xpert rules. Be sure 
to look for other D&D modules from TSR, the Game Wizards! 
Distributed to the book trade in the United States by Random House, Inc. and in Canada by Random House of Canada. Ltd. 
Distributed to the toy and hobby trade by regional distributors. 
01981 TSR Hobbies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS and D&D are registered trademarks owned by TSR Hobbies, Inc. 
PRINTED IN USA. 
ISBN 0-935696-51-2 
TSR Hobbies, Inc. 
POB 756 
Lake Geneva, WI 53147 9051 

===== PAGE 3 =====
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS@ Expert Set 
Dungeon Module X2 
CASTLE MER 
Castle Amber is intended for use with the DUNGEONS & 
DRAGONS Expert Set, which continues and expands the 
D&D@ Basic rules. This module cannot be used without the D&D 
Basic and Expert rules. 
PART 1: INTRODUCTION 
The information in this module is only for the Dungeon Master who 
will guide the players through the adventure. Knowledge of the 
contents of this module will spoil the surprise and excitement for 
players. If you plan to participate in this module as a player, please 
stop reading now. 
Notes for the Dungeon Master 
Before beginning to play, the DM should read the module thor- 
oughly to become familiar with it in detail. The information that is 
boxed is to be read aloud to the players at the appropriate time. 
The material that is not boxed is for the DM’s use and should only 
be revealed to the players at the DMs discretion. 
This module has been designed for a party of 6 to 10 characters, 
between the 3rd and 6th levels of experience. The total of the 
party’s experience levels should be from 26 to 34, with a total of 30 
being best. For example: a party might be made up of a 4th level 
fighter, a 6th level cleric, a 5th level magic-user, a 3rd level thief, a 
5th level dwarf, a 4th level elf and a 3rd level halfling for a total of 
30- (4+6+5+3+5+4+3=30). If thepartyhasastrengthofless 
than 26 levels or more than 34, the DM may wish to adjust the 
strength of the monsters in this module - either making them 
smaller and less numerous or larger and more numerous. Each 
party should have at least 1 magic-user or elf and 1 cleric. 
Castle Amber (Chiiteau D’Amberville) is made up of 9 parts 
-some provide wilderness adventures and some provide dungeon- 
like adventures. 
Part One (this section) outlines the scope of the adventure and 
describes the family of Amber (D’Amberville). 
Part Two details the West Wing of the Amber family mansion 
(dungeon adventure). 
Part Three describes the Indoor Forest in the central part of 
the mansion, which is built like a greenhouse (wilderness 
adventure). 
Part Four is a description of the family Chapel (dungeon 
adventure). 
Part Five describes the plan of the East Wing (dungeon 
adventure). 
Part Six details the dungeon under the mansion (dungeon 
adventure). 
Part Seven is a description of Averoigne, based on a fantasy 
world created by the author Clark Ashton Smith* (wilderness 
adventure). 
part Eight describes the Tomb of Stephen Amber (La Tombe 
Etienne D’Amberville) - (dungeon adventure). 
Part Nine gives details on the new monsters introduced in this 
module. 
During the adventures the DM should be careful to give the player 
characters a reasonable chance for survival. The emphasis is on 
reasonable. Try to be impartial and fair, but if players persist at 
taking unreasonable risks, or if bravery turns into foolhardiness, 
the DM should make it clear that the characters will die unless they 
act more intelligently. Everyone should cooperate to make the 
adventure fun and exciting. 
When describing monster encounters, the DM should not des- 
cribe them only by what they look like. After all, there are four 
other senses as well - smell, sound, taste and feelings of heat, 
cold, wetness and so forth. The DM should try to vary the ap- 
proach to encounters whenever possible. For example: the party 
might first hear a monster coming before actually meeting the 
monster. Such advance warnings are also a good way to warn a 
party that an encounter might be too difficult to handle. The DM 
should try to avoid lettingunplanned wandering monsters ruin the 
balance of the adventure, making it too tough for the party. 
The descriptions of each room give only a minimum of detail. The 
DM should feel free to add any additional details, such as the 
dimensions of the room, so long as this does not alter the challenge 
of the encounter. Additional detail is not necessary, but it may 
strengthen the atmosphere of the adventure. 
This module is not designed to be played completely in a single 
session; a number of gaming sessions will be needed to finish it. If 
the party tries to complete the entire module without stopping 
periodically to regain lost hit points and restore spells, they are all 
quite likely to die. The party has an unknown powerful ally looking 
after them. Prince Stephen Amber (described in detail in a later 
section) will send a cloud of amber light to encircle the party at the 
end of a gaming session. This light will protect the party from all 
wandering monsters and provides nourishment. The amber light 
will also restore all lost hit points to wounded characters and allows 
magic-users, elves and clerics a chance to regain their spells. Time 
outside the amber light stops while it continues for those within the 
light. Thus, if characters gain enough experience to reach higher 
experience levels they may train and study between gaming ses- 
sions and rise in experience levels. Those characters who gain 
experience levels may use the abilities gained at the new level the 
next time they play. In general, the DM will find that a single part of 
the module is equaf to one gaming session. 
For the convenience of the DM, whenever a monster or NPC is 
described in the text, the game statistics will be listed in paren- 
theses in the following order: 
Monster Name (Armor Class; Hit Dice or Class/Level; hit points; 
Number of Attacks per round; Damage per attack; Movement per 
turn (round); Save As: Class/Level; Morale; Alignment; and Abili- 
ties for NPCs, if necessary.) 
Abbreviations which are used are: 
Armor Class = AC, Hit Dice = HD, Cleric = C, Dwarf = D, Elf = E, 
Fighter = F, Halfling = H, Magic-User = M, Thief = T, Normal Man 
=NM; Level = #, hit points = hp, Number of Attacks = #AT 
Damage = D, Movement = MV, Save As = Save, Morale = ML; 
Alignment = AL; Strength = S, Intelligence = I, Wisdom = W, 
Dexterity = D, Constitution = C, Charisma = Ch. 
Class/Leuel is only used for NPCs, while Hit Dice is used for all 
other monsters. It should be noted that movement in a game turn is 
three times the movement rate per round. 
*Permission to base Part Seven on the Averoigne stories of Clark 
Ashton Smith was graciously granted by CASiana Literary En- 
terprises, Inc. 
2 

===== PAGE 4 =====
I I 
The Amber Family 
The Amber family did not come from the world where this adven- 
ture takes place. Their roots go back many centuries to another 
world in a different dimension. The world where the Ambers 
originated is similar to the medieval France of our world. It is a 
parallel Earth with a history that is similar, yet different from our 
own. The two main differences are 
1) magic is real, but illegal, and the law is upheld by the 
2) this world has not yet progressed beyond medieval 
church. 
technology. 
The Amber family held estates in the province of Averoigne on the 
alternate Earth. Their original family name was D’Amberville. This 
family was noted for secretly practicing magic. In their search for 
power, the D’Ambervilles began to study black magic, especially 
magic that dealt with certain dark elder gods whose worship was 
forbidden. When their secret studies became known, the D’Am- 
berville family was outcast. After a short but deadly war, the 
D’Ambervilles fled through a temporary gateway between dimen- 
sions. They were given refuge in Glantri, a country ruled by a 
council of independent princes, each a powerful magic-user. (For 
more details of Glantri and the continent it is located on, see 
Dungeon Module X1, The Isle of Dread.) 
After several generations of living in Glantri, the D’Amberville 
family grew so powerful that each new family leader automatically 
became one of the Princes or Princesses of Glantri. They shor- 
tened their name to Amber and all family members learned to 
speak two languages, French and the common language of Glantri. 
For a century or so, the Ambers were one of the major powers in 
Glantri. In particular, the seventh and last Prince, Prince Stephen 
Amber, was one of the most powerful magic-users in the history of 
Glantri. Suddenly, however, the entire Amber family and their 
mansion, Castle Amber, disappeared. They were never seen again 
and no one knows for sure what happened to them. In time, the 
Ambers became legends, the subjects of tales to frighten misbe- 
having children. 
Note: The Amber family is not one of Clark Ashton Smith’s 
creations and does not appear in any Averoigne stories. Their 
origin has been traced to Averoigne to aid the continuity of the 
module and to ease transition in and out of Averoigne in the course 
of the adventure. 
The personalities of the lost Amber family members set the mood 
for the adventure. The Ambers are not quite sane! They range 
from slightly eccentric to completely insane. For the most part, the 
family is chaotic. While they are proud of their name, they seldom 
cooperate with each other. Most of the family members believe 
they can do anything once they set their mind to it. The Ambers 
live magically lengthened lives, but they have seen too much and 
are bored. They seek anything to relieve this boredom. On top of 
their other traits, the Ambers possess a bizarre sense of humor. It 
amuses them to watch adventurers battle obstacles which the 
Amber family members place in their way. The Ambers are equally 
amused whether the adventurers succeed or fail. A good spectacle 
is more important to them than defeating the adventurers. The 
Ambers tend to be fair, out of the belief that a rigged game is too 
predictable and not much fun. 
Eccentricity, chaotic individualism, great pride and a warped sense 
of humor are the main Amber family traits that the DM should keep 
in mind. The DM also should note that many of the Amber family 
names, when first encountered, are given in both English and 
French. For simplicity, the DM may use the more familiar English 
names or may add exotic flavor to Castle Amber by using the 
original French ones. A glossary of names, translations and pro- 
nunciations is given at the end of this module. 
Start 
Your party has been traveling overland to Glantri City, tracking 
down rumors that one of the Princes of Glantri is looking for 
brave adventurers willing to undertake a special mission (for a 
suitable fee, of course). You were especially eager to receive the 
commission, because the Princes of Glantri are noted for their 
generosity, not only with money but also with magical gifts. 
Leading pack mules laden with supplies, you have been follow- 
ing a river that the local inhabitants assured you would lead to 
Glantri City. Unfortunately, no hired guide was available, and 
either the directions given you were wrong or you have taken 
the wrong fork by mistake. At any rate, you have good reason 
to suspect that you are lost and will have to retrace your route 
tomorrow. 
The sun is setting and it is time to make camp. The most 
defensible campsite is on a nearby hill. The night passes safely, 
though everyone’s sleep is plagued with nightmares. When the 
sun finally rises, you stare out at a world gone mad. Instead of 
the hill where you made camp last night, your bedrolls now lie in 
a foyer of an ornate mansion. A freshly swept carpet graces the 
floor. The walls are decorated with bright, colorful tapestries. 
Brass candelabras line the entranceway. They show signs of 
having been recently polished and are filled with candles. 
More frightening than the sudden change from the wilderness 
to a mansion, is the smoky gray mist which surrounds the 
mansion at a distance of 30 feet, blocking all sight beyond. No 
sound penetrates the mist. A mule which acciden- 
tally wandered into the mist was quickly lost to sight, though its 
lead rope was clearly visible at the edge of the mist. When the 
rope was hauled back in, the dead body of the mule was 
dragged back into the sunlight. What killed the mule cannot be 
determined, but it died with a horrible look of pain on its face. 
The mist advances on the mansion even as the party watches, 
but luckily it does not enter the foyer. The double doors to the 
interior swing open into the main hallway by themselves. 
The Gray Mist completely surrounds the mansion and covers all of 
the land beyond. Should the players decide to walk into the mist, 
on the first round they will begin to choke and suffocate. They will 
feel disoriented and begin to get nauseous with painful cramps. 
3 

===== PAGE 5 =====
They will experience nightmarish visions and the pain will grow 
more intense with each passing second. Every round thereafter 
that the character remains in the mist he or she must save vs. 
Poison or suffer 1-6 points of damage from the noxious gases. Each 
character must also save vs. Spells or become momentarily de- 
ranged and flee back to the mansion. The mist does not end. 
The Gray Mist is a device to ensure that the party will enter the 
mansion. If at all possible it should not actually kill any characters. 
While the adventures may be hard and dangerous, by searching all 
the rooms in the mansion the party will find the clues that will allow 
them to cross the mist safely and return to the world where the 
adventure started. 
The interior of the castle, or chateau, is lavish. The stone walls are 
usually covered with either tapestries or wooden paneling. The 
stone floors are usually covered with carpets or wood parqueting 
(square wooden tiles of contrasting color patterns). The rooms are 
huge and their ceilings are 30 or higher. The doors are generally 
made of heavy, reinforced oak planks. Unless they are listed as 
locked, the doors will open for the party without being forced. The 
furnishings are ornate and expensive. The predominant style is 
flashy with extensive gold inlay, intricate carvings and deep, bright 
colors. 
Wandering Monsters 
The party is likely to encounter wandering monsters throughout 
Castle Amber and the land of Averoigne, except in the Tomb of 
Stephen Amber. The West Wing, East Wing, Chapel and Dungeon 
all use the same wandering monster encounter table. There are 
separate encounter tables for both the Indoor Forest and 
Averoigne. 
The chance the party will encounter a wandering monster is 1 on 
ld6. The DM should check for an encounter every two turns. For 
the sake of variety, it is suggested that no wandering monster be 
encountered more than once until they have all been encountered. 
If one is rolled up a second time, the DM should choose another 
that has not been encountered yet. 
Wandering Monster Encounter Table (d20) 
(West Wing, East Wing, Chapel, and Dungeon) 
Die 
Roll Monster Number Statistics 
1 Doppleganger 
2 Hobgoblin 
Servant 
3 Isabel Amber1 
4 Living Statue, 
Crystal 
5 Living Statue, 
Iron 
6 Living Statue, 
Rock 
7 Lupin 
8 Lycanthrope, 
Werewolf 
9 Lycanthrope, 
Weretiger 
1-6 
3-18 
1 
1-6 
1-4 
1-3 
3-12 
1-6 
1-4 
AC 5; HD 4*; #AT 1; D 1-12; 
MV (30); Save F10: ML 10; 
AL C. 
AC 6; HD 1+1; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
MV (30); Save F1; ML 8; AL C. 
AC 9: M12; hp 26; #AT 1; 
D 1-4 + spells; MV (40); Save 
M12; M9; AL C. 
AC 4; HD 3; #AT 2; D 1-6/1-6; 
MV (30); Save F3; ML 11; 
AL N. 
AC 2; HD 4; #AT 2; D 1-8/1-8; 
MV (10); Save F4; ML 11; 
AL N. 
2-12; MV (20); Save F5; ML 11; 
AL C. 
MV (40); Save F2; ML 8; AL L. 
MV (60); Save F4; ML 8; AL C. 
2-12; MV (50); Save F5; ML 9; 
AL N. 
AC 4; HD 5**; #AT 2; D 2-12/ 
AC 6; HD 2; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
AC 4; HD 4*; #AT 1; D 2-8; 
AC 3; HD 5*; #AT 3; D 1-6/1-6/ 
10 Magen, Caldron 
11 Magen, Hypnos 
12 Magen, Galvan 
13 MaryHelen 
Amber?? 
14 Rakasta 
15 Shadow 
16 Skeleton 
17 Spider, 
Black Widow 
18 Thou1 Servant 
1-4 
1 
1-3 
1 
2-12 
1-8 
4-16 
1-3 
1-6 
19 William Amber??? 1 
20 Zombie 2-8 
AC 5; HD 4*; #AT 1; D acid 
1-10; MV (40'); Save F4; ML 12; 
AL N. 
AC 7; HD 2*; #AT 1; D charm; 
MV (40'); Save M2; ML 12; 
AL N. 
AC 3; HD 5*; #AT 1; D 3-18 
lightning or by weapon; 
MV (40); Save F5; ML 12; 
AL N. 
AC 0; F14; hp 60; #AT 1; 
D 1-8 (+3); MV (20); Save F14; 
ML 10; AL C (see below) 
AC 6; HD 2+1; #AT 3; D 1-4 
each; MV (30'); Save F2; ML 9; 
AL N. 
AC 7; HD 2+2*; #AT 1; D 1-4 + 
special; MV (30); Save F2; 
ML 12; AL C. 
MV (20); Save F1; ML 12; 
AL C. 
poison; MV (20) web (40'); 
Save F2; ML 8; AL N. 
AC 6; HD 3*; #AT 1; D 1-8 + 
paralysis; MV (40'); Save F3; 
ML 10; AL C. 
AC 9; M10; hp 24; #AT 1; 
D 1-4 + spells; MV (40); Save 
M10; ML 9; AL C (see below) 
MV (40); Save F1; ML 12; 
AL C. 
AC 7; HD 1; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
AC 6; HD 3"; #AT 1; D 1-4 + 
AC 8; HD 2; #AT 1; D 1-8; 
t Isabel Amber (Isabelle D'Amberville) 
Abilities: S 12, I 17, W 11, D 9, C 10, Ch 15. 
Magic items: potion of speed and ring of delusion. 
Her spells: 
First level: floating disc, light, shield, ventriloquism 
Second level: invisibility, knock, levitate, locate 
Third level: clairvoyance, lightning bolt, protection 
Fourth level confusion, dimension door, wizard eye 
Fifth level: pass wall, wall of stone 
Sixth level: anti-magic shell, disintegrate 
object 
from normal missiles 
??Mary Helen Amber (Marie-Hblene D'Amberville) 
Abilities: S 17, I 10, W 11, D 14, C 13, Ch 12. 
Magic items: sword +1, NSA, chain +2 worn under normal 
clothing and a ring of protection +1. 
tttWilliam Amber (Guillaume D'Amberville) 
Abilities: S 10,118, W 11, D 12, C 9, Ch 13. 
Magic items: potion of invulnerability and boots of 
His spells: 
levitation. 
First level: floating disc, read magic, sleep 
Second level: detect evil, knock, web 
Third level: hold person, invisibility 10' R, protection 
Fourth level polymorph others, wall of fire, wizard 
Fifth level: pass wall, telekinesis 
from normal missiles 
eye 
4 

===== PAGE 6 =====
PART 2: WEST WING 
1. FOYER 
The foyer, which has already been described, is empty except for 
the characters and their pack animals. The party members may 
enter the chateau proper, but the animals will balk at entering the 
front hall and, if forced through the doors, will continue to struggle 
and run away at the first chance they get. The hall is dark, as are all 
the rooms unless noted otherwise. The gray mist blocks sunlight 
from every direction except directly above. 
2. THE GRAND SALON. 
This room is luxuriously furnished with plush chairs, polished 
wood tables, ornate rugs and other fine furniture. The furniture 
has been pushed back against the walls and the carpets have 
been rolled up. In the middle of the floor, an impromptu boxing 
ring has been set up. In one corner of the ring a man stands as 
still as a statue with his hands raised in the boxing guard 
position. This man is wearing amber silk trunks. You notice that 
his skin has an unreal quality. Seated near the boxer is a man 
dressed in colorful silks, fancy lace and rich velvets. He also 
wears a large-brimmed hat flaunting a peacock’s feather. A 
jeweled rapier is slung on his right side on a supple leather 
baldric. He has wavy black hair and a closely trimmed beard 
which comes to a point. Two men in plate mail carrying hal- 
berds stand as guards on either side of the richly dressed man. 
The guards’ flesh has the same unreal quality as the boxer’s. 
The seated man’s flesh does not have this quality. 
While the chairs have been pushed back, they all face toward 
the boxing ring. Floating above the center of each chair is a pair 
of red, unblinking eyes that turn to watch you. 
The boxer is a demos magen (AC 7; HD 3+2; hp 24; #AT 2; D 1-3 
each; MV (40); Save F5; ML 9; AL N), a being created by special 
enchantments (see Part 9, New Monsters). This magen or magi- 
cal man is one of the Amber family’s creations, especially trained to 
fight with its fists. The two halberd-wielding guards are also 
demos magen (AC 2; HD 3+2; hp 19 each; #AT 1; D 1-10; MV (20); 
Save F4; ML 9; AL N). The richly dressed man is John-Louis 
Amber (Jean-Louis D’Amberville), (AC 2: F/12; hp54; #AT 1; D 1-8 
+2; MV (20); Save F12; ML 10; AL C). Beneath his rich clothing he 
wears chain mail +2. His rapier is a sword +2. When he gives the 
command “Fight!” the boxer will commence boxing. When he 
gives the command “Kill!,” all three magen will attack the party. 
When he gives the command “Stop!,” all three magen will stop 
fighting. John-Louis is the only individual the magen will obey. 
John-Louis is the trainer and manager for the magen boxer. As 
soon as the party enters, he will try to set up a bare-knuckle boxing 
match between his magen and whatever champion the party may 
choose from among their members. He offers even odds (the odds 
can be raised or lowered at the DM’s discretion, depending on how 
even the match is), and he will cover up to 10,000 gp in bets. The 
bets must be made from cash in hand. John-Louis will extend no 
credit. 
The party is not obligated to accept the boxing match. They may 
refuse and leave the room with no penalty. Should they decide to 
accept the match, it will be five boxing rounds long. The challenger 
can neither wear armor nor use any weapons. The challenger may 
prepare for the match using whatever magic he or she thinks may 
be helpful. A boxing round is defined as 1 minute of combat, or 6 
normal combat rounds. At the beginning of each round the party 
may “throw in the towel” to save their champion from taking 
further damage. The challenger automatically loses if the party 
throws in the towel. 
When boxing, normal combat procedure is followed but charac- 
ters cause only 1-2 points of damage plus their bonuses; the magen 
does 1-3 points of damage. If the challenger lasts two rounds (i.e., 
still has 1 or more hit points left at the end of the second round), 
John-Louis will reward the party with an additional 1 gp above and 
beyond any side bets. If the challenger lasts three rounds, John- 
Louis will give the party an additional 10 gp; for four rounds, 100 
gp; and if the challenger should last all five rounds, John-Louis will 
reward the party with 1,000 gp. If the challenger wins, John-Louis 
will pay 10,000 gp. The rewards are not cumulative; John Louis will 
pay only the highest amount the challenger has earned. 
The challenger can win several ways. If either combatant is re- 
duced to 0 hit points, he dies. Any time a combatant strikes for the 
maximum amount of damage possible, there is a 5% chance (1 on 
ld20) he will knock his opponent out. The losing combatant passes 
out, regaining consciousness in 1-10 rounds. A combatant can also 
win by a decision. Total the damage that each combatant does in 
each of the five boxing rounds. The combatant who caused the 
most damage each round wins the round. In the case of a tie, the 
magen wins the round. Whichever combatant wins the most box- 
ing rounds is the winner, even if there is no knockout or kill. 
The eyes floating over each chair belong to other members of the 
Amber family, who have cast wizard eye and phantasmal force 
spells in order to watch the match. John-Louis had 20,000 gp in a 
locked iron chest set into the floor. The party may win some or all 
of the money from him or they may attempt to attack him and take 
the money. The rest of the Amber family will not interfere if he is 
attacked, even if he is killed. 
3. STUDY. 
The room is paneled in polished mahogany. A large fireplace 
faced with marble is set in the south wall. Whatever furniture 
was once in this room has been removed, except for an iron- 
bound wooden chest in the southeastern corner. Lying around 
the fireplace are a dozen or so bedrolls. Near the bedrolls are a 
dozen humanoids with cat-like faces dressed in leather armor. 
The cat-beings are rakasta (AC 6: HD 2+1; hp 10 each; #AT 3; D 1-4 
each; MV (30); Save F2; ML 9; AL N). They wear iron claws over 
their paws and attack with two claws and a bite. For further 
information see Part 9, New Monsters. 
The rakasta, with the permission of the Amber family, have turned 
this study into a lair. In the far corner of the room is a wooden chest 
that holds the rakastas’ treasure: 6,000 gp, 2,000 pp, and a large 
ornate silver key worth 500 gp that can be used to open the silver 
gate to Averoigne in the Dungeon (Part 6). 
5 

===== PAGE 7 =====
4. DINING ROOM 
Upon entering, you see a dining room in an advanced state of 
decay. After a short time, 12 men and 12 women in costly garb 
walk into the room through the solid south wall and proceed to 
sit down around the table. As soon as the 24 guests enter, the 
appearance of the dining room miraculously changes so it 
seems undecayed. If you concentrate hard enough, you can still 
see the original decayed scene beneath the fresh double- 
images. The 24 banquet guests are faintly transparent. Seven- 
teen of these guests are human, three are elves, two are 
dwarves and two are halflings. Beside the 24 chairs already filled 
are a dozen empty chairs with diningware and utensils set 
before them. In front of several of the empty chairs are place- 
cards with the names of party members. 
The ghost-like figures have no physical substance and cannot be 
touched or dispelled. Any object striking one passes through as if 
nothing was there. The figures will not seem to notice or communi- 
cate with the characters. 
Each player character has one full turn to decide whether to sit 
down at the banquet table. After one turn, all empty chairs, place- 
cards and table settings where a character has not been seated will 
disappear. Once everyone who wishes to be seated is seated, the 
double doors at the head of a double flight of stairs in the north wall 
will open and ghostly servants will begin to bring in the dinner, 
course by course. The servants are also transparent, as is the food 
they bring to all the ghostly guests, except to the characters. The 
food given to the characters seems perfectly normal to all senses. 
The first course is onion soup with croutons and melted cheese, 
plus a mellow amber wine. The second course consists of a tossed 
salad. The third course, the main course, is roast beef, wheat 
bread, mushrooms in wine sauce, green beans and a red wine. The 
final course consists of apple streudal and brandy. 
Characters seated at the banquet may eat any, all, or none of the 
foods. Most of the foods are magical. To gain or suffer the magical 
effects, all of a type of food must be eaten. Characters must all 
declare whether or not they have eaten a particular food before 
they find out what that food's effects are. A type of food will only 
affect a character once. 
The various effects of the foods are: 
Onion Soup: Save vs. Spells. If the save is made, nothing 
happens. If it is not made, the character gains 1-4 hit points 
permanently. 
Amber Wine: This wine will cure any disease or blindness, 
neutralizes poison currently in the character's system, and/or 
restores any lost hit points immediately. If none of this applies, 
nothing happens. 
Tossed Salad: One of the character's abilities (picked at ran- 
dom ) gains 1-2 points and one ability loses 1-2 points; this may 
affect the same ability. (No score can be raised above 18 or 
lowered below 3.) 
Roast Beef This is not magical, but is tender, tasty and pink in 
the center. 
Wheat Bread Save vs. Spells. If the save is made, the charac- 
ter becomes immune to the effects of starvation. If the save is 
unsuccessful, the character will forever need twice the normal 
amount of nourishment. 
Green Beans: These are not magical. 
Mushrooms in Wine Sauce: Save vs. Poison. If the save is 
made the character gains +4 on all future saves vs. Poison. If it is 
not successful, the character dies of toadstool poisoning. 
Red Wine: This wine causes magical drunkenness for 2-12 
turns. 
Apple Streudal: Save vs. Spells. If the save is failed the charac- 
ter gains the ability to ESP (as per the spell) once per week. If 
the save is made, nothing happens. 
Brandy: Save vs. Death Ray. If the save is failed, the character 
becomes insubstantial and joins the ghostly feast forever as an 
additional transparent guest. If the save is made, nothing 
happens. 
5. THE HALL OF MIRRORS 
I 
You enter a wide, long hallway running east to west. In the 
center of the hall is a 10' wide red carpet stretching from the 
' west door to the east door. The ceiling arches 20 high over- 
head. Near the east end of the hall, a raised catwalk stretches 
across the hallway 10' above the players' heads. At either end of 
the overpass are double doors. Thousands of 1" square mirrors 
are set into the ceiling and walls. The resulting reflection of your 
torches resembles a swarm of fireflies as myriad pinpoints of 
light are reflected back. The floor of the hall, where it is not 
covered with the red carpet, is polished white marble. The 
marble is so shiny you can see your reflections on its surface. 
Polished brass candelabra line both walls and crystal chandeli- 
ers hang from the ceiling. All the candle holders on the candela- 
bra and chandeliers are filled with unlit candles. 
As soon as all the characters are in the hall, or as many as 
circumstances permit, all the hallway doors will suddenly swing 
open and then slam shut. The resulting draft will extinguish all light 
sources in the hall, even magical ones. 
If anyone in the hall tries to relight a light source or cast a light 
spell, all the candles in the hall will magically light at the same time 
with a brilliant flash. The light will be reflected off the walls, ceiling 
and floor and off the highly polished chandeliers and candelabra. 
The resulting light is so bright that all characters will be temporarily 
blinded. All characters must save vs. Spells or be blinded for 3-18 
turns each. Those who save will be blinded for only half the time. 
Once the candles are lit, the hall will be lit as if under a permanent 
light spell. Should a character regain his or her sight while in the 
hall, he or she will be able to see normally. The characters will be 
able to tell that their blindness is not permanent, but will be unable 
to guess how long the blindness will last. 
The idea of this encounter area is to test the players' inventiveness 
when their characters are confronted with the sudden loss of sight. 
Wandering monsters should be rolled for normally. The DM 
should use discretion when confronting a blinded party with 
monsters. 
6 

===== PAGE 8 =====
6. LINEN CLOSET 
You see a closet filled with shelves of fresh linen, bath towels, 
soap and other household items. 
The closet is empty except for the items mentioned. 
7. SERVANTS QUARTERS 
This room appears to have been quarters for the Amber family 
servants. The room is now completely filled with a mass of giant 
spider webs. Three giant spiders sit in the webs. 
The room has been turned into an aranea lair. Three aranea (AC 7: 
HD 3**; hp 18, 16,14; #AT 1; D 1-6 +poison and spells; MV (20’); 
web (40); Save M3: ML 8; AL C; see Part 9, New Monsters) live 
in the lair. Their spells are: 
Aranea #1- First level: charm person, light 
Second level: phantasmal force 
Aranea #2 - First level: read magic, ventriloquism 
Second level: detect evil 
Aranea #3 - First level: floating disc, sleep 
Second level: continual light 
The aranea treasure is in a wooden box wrapped with webs and 
hung in the webbing. The box contains 5 gems worth 100 gp, 500 
gp, 10 gp, 100 gp and 50 gp, plus 2 pieces of jewelry worth 1,500 gp 
and 1,400 gp. 
8. SERVANTS QUARTERS 
The only part not so covered is a small four-foot-square stone 
platform raised 2’ off the floor, located against the east wall. 
Cemented to the platform is a stone chest shaped like a 3’ cube. 
The entire ceiling is a dull black. 
The floor is, of course, covered with green slime (AC always hit; 
HD lo*; hp 52; #AT 1; D special; MV (1‘); Save F1; ML 12; AL N). 
The green slime is 2 deep across the entire floor. It covers so much 
volume that it has 10 hit dice worth of hit points, instead of 2. It still 
fights as a 2 HD monster, however. 
Clinging to the ceiling is a huge black pudding (AC 6; HD 10”; hp 
56; #AT 1; D 3-24; MV (20’); Save F5; ML 12; AL N). The black 
pudding will attack anyone trying to reach the chest by flying or 
levitation. 
If a character gets within 5’ of the stone platform and chest, he or 
she will notice that both look wet. They are covered with a gray 
ooze (AC 8: HD 3*; hp 19; #AT 1; D 2-16; MV (3’); Save F2; ML 12; 
AL N). The chest has a heavy stone slab top which can be lifted 
with a combined strength of 25. The chest holds 3,000 gp, 1,000 pp, 
a staff of healing, a sword +2 (Intelligence 9, Ego 11, Will 22; AL 
N; detects magic, finds traps and detects sloping passages). 
9. BEDROOM 
This is a richly furnished bedroom. The bed is longer than 
normal. Standing next to the bed is an 8’ tall creature with the 
shape of a human and the head of a lion. A jeweled golden 
crown rests atop his head. He wears golden plate mail. 
This individual is Richard Amber, the Lion-Hearted (Richard 
Coeur de Lion D’Amberville) - (AC 2; F/10; hp 43; #AT 1; D 1-8 
(+6); MV (20’); Save F10; ML 11; AL C; S 18,19, W 10, D 12, C 11, 
Ch 15). Richard is a 10th level fighter who has been magically 
altered. He is the leader of the rakasta in room #3, The Study. If he 
decides to fight, he will charge with a terrible roar. Anyone hearing 
the roar must save vs. Spells or be affected as if by a wand of fear. 
Richard has plate mail +2, a sword +3, NSA, and carries a potion 
of poison. His crown is worth 3,800 gp. 
10. MASTER BEDROOM 
~ ~~ 
The room is a large ornate bedroom. There is a large four poster 
I bed in the middle of the room with all the curtains drawn. 
If the party quietly investigates the drawn curtains, they will find an 
individual, apparently asleep, bundled under the covers. The figure 
under the blankets is completely covered. The party will notice 
that the figure is larger than a normal sized human and does not fit 
well in the bed. 
The figure under the covers is actually an ogre (AC 5; HD 4+1; hp 
25; #AT 1; D 1-10; MV (30’); Save F4; ML 10; ALC) which has been 
enchanted to believe that it is Janet Amber. The ogre is dressed in 
silken night clothes which are bursting at the seams, because they 
were designed for a much smaller individual. This ogre killed Janet 
Amber (Janette D’Amberville), the gown’s owner, and is now 
imitating its mistress. Hence it wears her clothes, sleeps in her bed, 
etc. Janet’s body is hidden inside a fireplace chimney against the 
north wall. 
If awakened, the ogre will try to act the part of a gracious host. 
Unfortunately, its command of languages and of the social graces 
is slight and it will become more and more frustrated as it continues 
to make mistakes, until the ogre finally goes berserk and attacks. 
11. BEDROOM. 
This is another bedroom filled with costly furniture. Seated on 
the bed are two pale, manlike, almost transparent figures com- 
posed of thick mist. One of the figures resembles a middle-aged 
man while the other resembles a matronlv woman. 
The two figures are wraiths (AC 3; HD 4**; hp 18 each; #AT 1; D 
1-6 +energy drain; MV (40); Fly (80); Save F4; ML 12; AL C). They 
will attack on sight. Behind a mirror mounted on the north wall is 
an iron safe cemented into the wall. The safe is locked and the lock 
is trapped so that, if not successfully detected and removed, a 
cloud of deadly spores (10’ x 10 x 10) will explode outward when 
the safe is opened. Anyone within the cloud who fails to save vs. 
Poison will die. The safe contains 5,000 gp. 
12. KITCHEN. 
This room is a large kitchen. You see a dozen ghostlike hobgob- 
lins dressed in pale amber-colored livery preparing a large meal. 
The hobgoblin servants and the food they are preparing are 
transparent. 
The hobgoblins are busy preparing for the ghostly feast (see room 
#4, The Dining Room). They cannot be touched, either by wea- 
pons or magic, nor can they touch the characters. They will 
completely ignore the characters no matter what the party does. 
Besides the normal kitchen apparatus and the ghostly hobgoblins, 
the room is empty. A flight of stairs leads up to a set of double doors 
in the south wall. The doors open onto an overpass which arches 
over the Hall of Mirrors (room #5) and enters the Dining Room 
(room #4). The servants use the overpass to carry food from the 
kitchen to the dining room without disturbing any guests. 
7 

===== PAGE 9 =====
PART 3: THE INDOOR FOREST 
Here a huge octagon-shaped building with seven domes has been 
turned into an indoor forest. The seven domes are made of thick 
panes of clear glass that let sunlight filter into the garden forest. 
The domes are nearly 100 feet high. Many trees of various types, 
some reaching a height of 83 feet,are planted in the garden. 
Numerous flowers. grasses, and bushes have also been planted. A 
stream meanders through the forest, widening into a fountain-pool 
in the middle of the garden. The north-west section of the forest 
slopes upward to form a 20 high hill. 
A 10 wide path wanders through the garden. The path was de- 
signed as a kind of scenic tour by the Amber family. The plant 
growth here is so thick that characters will only be able to see into 
an area 10’ wide on either side of the path. Beyond this area, the 
forest grows too thickly for anything to be seen clearly. The most 
that can be noted are vague movements, swaying branches, etc. 
Movement while on the path is normal. Movement off the path is at 
half the normal rate due to the thickness of the brush and trees. 
Furthermore, when out of sight of the path, there is a chance of 
becoming lost (1-2 on ld6). If the party becomes lost, roll ld8 to 
determine which direction they travel (1 =north, 2=northeast, 3= 
east, 4 = southeast, 5 = south, 6 = southwest, 7 = west, 8 = 
northwest). To further discourage off-path movement, the Amber 
family has constructed a number of pit traps with sharpened stakes 
at the bottom. Each trap does 2-12 points of damage to anyone 
falling into one and will be sprung by the first individual to walk on 
it. They also have planted a number of impenetrable barriers of 
thorn bushes. Crossing the stream anywhere other than on the 
bridge takes one full turn. 
There are no rooms in the indoor forest; there are, however, a 
number of encounter areas. The encounter areas are designed 
primarily for use when the party is on the path. It is possible, 
however, to stumble into an encounter area while off the path. The 
area where the encounter could take place is marked on the map. 
Note there is no gray mist overhead, so that the forest is sunlit and 
other light sources are unnecessary. 
Wandering Monsters 
A special Wandering Monster Encounter Table for the indoor 
forest is given below. When the party is on the path, check for a 
possible wandering monster once every two turns (1 in 6 chance). 
When the party is off the path, check every turn for a possible 
wandering monster. 
Indoor Forest Wandering Monster Encounter Table (d8) 
Die 
Roll Monster Number Statistics 
1 Bear, Grizzly 1-4 
2 Centaur 1-6 
3 Hawk, Giant 1-3 
4 Isidora Amber? 1 
,5 R hagodessa 1-4 
AC 6; HD 5; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/ 
1-8; MV 120 (40); Save F2; 
ML 8; AL N. 
AC 5; HD 4; #AT 3; D 1-6 each; 
MV 180 (60’); Save F4; ML 8; 
AL N. 
MV 450 (150); Save F2; ML 8; 
AL N. 
AC 9; M11; #AT 1; D 1-4 + 
spells; MV 120’ (40’); Save M11; 
ML 9; AL C. 
AC 5; HD 4+2; #AT 2; D 0/2-16; 
MV 150 (50’); Save F2; ML 9; 
AL N. 
AC 6; HD 3+3; #AT 1; D 1-6; 
6 Robber Fly 2-12 AC 6; HD 2; #AT 1; D 1-8; MV 
90 (30’) By 180 (60); Save F1; 
ML 8; AL N. 
poison; MV 120 (40); Save F2; 
ML 8; AL N. 
8 Weasel, Giant 1-4 AC 7; HD 4+4; #AT 1 + special; 
D 2-8; MV 150 (50); Save F3; 
ML 8; AL N. 
7 Snake, Giant 1-2 AC 5; HD 4*; #AT 2; D 1-4 + 
Rattler 
t Isidora Amber (Isodore D’Amberville) 
Abilities: S 11, I 18, W 14, D 14, C 9, Ch 15. 
Magic items: Potion of animal control and a ring of control 
plant. 
Her Spells: 
First level: charm person, detect magic, read magic, 
Second level: detect invisible, ESP 
Third level: dispel magic, infravision, water breathing 
Fourth level: charm monster, growth of plants, 
Fifth level: feeblemind, hold monster 
Sixth level: move earth 
sleep 
hallucinatory terrain 
13. THE FOREST OF DOOM 
The path runs southeast-northwest here, continuing forward in 
a series of S-shaped curves. The trees along this part of the path 
are larger than any trees you have seen thus far. 
Six of the trees along this section of the path are actually killer trees 
(AC 5; HD 6; hp27 each; #AT 5; D special; MV none; Save F3; ML 
12; AL N; for further information see Part 9, New Monsters). The 
trees will wait to attack until as many of the party as possible are 
within tentacle reach. There are three killer trees on either side of 
the path. Another dozen killer trees are inside the encounter area 
to the west, but beyond reach from the path. Should the party 
wander off the path, the DM should see that they encounter at 
least a few of these. 
14. SHADOW PARANOIA 
You hear branches rustling on both sides of the path. At the 
limit of your sight you see a number of grotesque shadowy 
forms to both sides of the road apparently following you. 
The forms are only illusions and the rustling is done mechanically. 
This encounter is designed to keep the party guessing, and to 
make sure they can never be certain which dangers are real and 
which are not real until they are fully investigated. 
15. THE MAIDEN AND THE UNICORN 
You see an amber-skinned woman with long golden hair sleep- 
ing in the middle of the path. A unicorn is sleeping next to her. 
The woman is wearing a dress the color of yellow daffodils. Her 
head rests on a rolled up saffron-colored cloak. One arm is 
draped around a small wooden chest. 
The woman is actually a gold dragon in human form. The gold 
dragon is very young (AC -2; HD 8**; hp 36; #AT 3 plus breath 
weapon in dragon form only, otherwise spells; D 2-8/2-8/6-36 plus 
breath weapon in dragon form only, otherwise, by spells; MV 90 
(30), fly 240’ (80’) in dragon form only, otherwise 120 (40); Save 
M8; ML 10; AL L). In her human form, the only attack the gold 
dragon has is her spells: 
8 

===== PAGE 10 =====
First level: charm person, light, protection from evil, 
Second level: detect evil, ESP, knock, wizard lock 
Third level: dispel magic, hold person, protection from 
sleep 
normal missiles, water breathing 
Inside the chest are 4,000 pp. Note that since she is in a flammable 
forest, the gold dragon will breathe chlorine gas, not fire. 
The unicorn (AC 2; HD 4*; hp 18; #AT 3; D 1-8 each; MV 240 (80); 
Save F8; ML 7; AL L) is a close friend and ally of the gold dragon 
and will fight in the gold dragon’s defense. 
The gold dragon does not know how to get past the Gray Mist. She 
will not leave the indoor forest. 
16. THE BILLYGOAT’S WOE. 
A 10 wide wooden bridge spans a meandering stream. The path 
continues across the bridge. On the side of the bridge closest to 
you, you see a humanoid with the head and horns of a billygoat 
saying: “Please don’t eat me, Mr. Troll, my brothers, who are 
right behind me, are much bigger and fatter than I am.” 
A deep gruff voice from beneath the bridge answers, “All right, 
you may pass, I’ll wait for your brothers.” The billygoat exits 
across the bridge. 
Not surprisingly, a troll (AC 4; HD 6+3*; hp 30; MV 40‘; Save F6; 
ML 10; AL C) lives under the bridge. Unless he can somehow be 
tricked, he will attack the party if they venture within the area of 
this encounter, mistaking the party for the billygoat’s older 
brothers. 
17. A CROCK OF CROCS. 
The river which winds through the indoor forest is filled with 
crocodiles. If the party passes within 10 of either bank of the river 
(while off the path) or tries to cross the river (except by the bridge), 
the party will encounter 1-8 crocodiles (AC 5; HD 2; hp 9 each; #AT 
1; D 1-8; MV 90 (30); Save F1; ML 7; AL N). 
18. THE FOUNTAIN OF DEATH. 
In the center of the indoor forest is a circular pool of water. The 
pool is fed by a stream which wanders through the foresth the 
middle of the pool is a fountain. The fountain is shaped like three 
interlinked gargoyles. The gargoyles spray water from their 
mouths. Embedded at the base of the trio of statues, you see the 
lid of a metal chest. The lid is padlocked. 
The gargoyles are only stone statues. The real danger lies hidden. 
The fountain is the lair of a giant amoeba (AC 9; HD 15; hp 68; #AT 
1; D 2-12; MV 30 (10); Save F7; ML 10; AL N for more information 
see Part 9, New Monsters). The giant amoeba covers the entire 
bottom of the fountain. It is hidden beneath mud, water-logged 
leaves and copper pieces thrown into the pool for “good luck.” 
(The DM may wish to give any character who throws more coins 
into the pool +1 to hit and damage in an encounter with the 
amoeba.) The chest is locked but not trapped. It contains 3,000 gp 
plus a large ornate silver key worth 500 gp, which can be used to 
open the silver gate to Averoigne in the Dungeon (Part 6). 
19. KING MIDAS’ ACORNS. 
The trees on both sides of the curving path are mainly oak trees. 
You notice six amber colored squirrels darting about in the 
trees collecting acorns. When a squirrel touches an acorn, the 
acorn appears to turn into gold. The squirrel then gathers up 
the golden acorn and carries it to a nearby hole in the trunk of a 
larse snarled tree. 
The squirrels are magical. They can only live by eating golden 
acorns and have the ability to transform only acorns into gold by 
their touch. Unfortunately, the squirrels can also only live in the 
indoor forest and will die if taken out of their home. Inside the 
squirrel’s lair are 400 acorns worth 5 gp each. The six squirrels (AC 
8; HD 5; hp 1 each; #AT 1; D 1 point; MV 120 (40); Save NM; ML 
10; AL N) will defend their hard earned cache of food. Note that 
their bite or touch will not turn a character into gold. Any attack on 
the squirrels will, however, automatically trigger a counter-attack 
by the Wild Hunt from encounter area 20. 
20. THE WILD HUNT. 
The hillside suddenly cracks open and a number of mounted 
creatures begin to ride out. 
This is the “Wild Hunt” that patrols the Indoor Forest. Small 
animals will alert the Hunt when intruders approach the lair. The 
riders are lupins and rakasta. The two lupins (AC 6; HD 2; hp 9; 
#AT 1; D 1-10 or 1-8; MV 120 (40); Save F2; ML 9; ALL; for more 
information see Part 9, New Monsters) ride dire wolves (AC 6; 
HD 4+1; hp 19 each; #AT 1; D 2-8; MV 150 (50‘); Save F2; ML8; AL 
N) and charge with a mounted lance before switching to a sword. 
The two rakasta (AC 6; HD 2+1; hp 10 each; #AT3; D 1-4 each; MV 
90 (30’); Save F2; ML9; AL N) are riding sabre-tooth tigers (AC 6; 
HD 8; hp 36 each; #AT 3; D 1-8/1-8/2-16; MV 150 (50); Save F4; 
ML 10; AL N). The lupins and rakasta are led by Andrew David 
Amber (Andre-David D’Amberville) (AC 6; F9; hp 40; #AT 1; D . 
1-10 + 2 or 1-6 + 4; MV 120 (40); Save F9; ML 10; AL C; S 17, I 12, 
W 9, D 11, C 10, Ch 12). Andrew David has been magically altered 
so that he now has the head of a large black goat and his body is 
covered with black, shaggy hair. His eyes glow red, and though he 
has hands, instead of human feet he has goat hooves. Andrew 
David rides a giant elk (AC 6; HD 8; hp36; #AT 1; D 1-12; MV 120’ 
(40); Save F4; ML 7; AL N). When he first attacks he will make a 
mounted lance charge, and then melee with a mace +2. He also 
has a potion of animal control. Andrew David designed the 
Indoor Forest and he patrols it regularly with the Wild Hunt. 
9 

===== PAGE 11 =====
21. WILDERNESS GATHERING 
You can see that the path ahead of you makes a right angle turn. 
You get a strange feeling that you are being watched. A closer 
look at the surrounding forests shows that all the plants in this 
area seem to have faces which turn and follow your every move. 
This is another encounter designed to keep the party alert and 
guessing. The faces on the flowers and trees are actually phan- 
tasmal forces and wizard eyes being cast by members of the 
Amber family. 
22. FLOWERS OF EVIL. 
The trees around the sweeping curve are sparser than usual 
and the area between the trees is filled with tall grass and giant 
flowers. There are two types of flowers; some look like amber- 
colored water lilies, and others look like white roses. The water 
lily buds are closed, while the rose buds are open. 
The grass and flowers of this area work together against the 
unwary. The golden water lilies are actually amber lotus flowers 
(AC 9; HD %; hp 3 each; #AT 1; D 40’ x 40 cloud of pollen, those in 
it must save vs. Spells or fall asleep for 4-16 turns; MV 0; Save NM; 
ML 12; AL N; for more information see Part 9, New Monsters). 
There are 20 amber lotus flowers. Any individual who falls asleep 
from their attack has a 50% chance of falling off the path, ending up 
in the grab grass at either side of the path (AC 9: HD 20; hp 90; #AT 
1; D grabs and holds anyone entering the patch;MVO;Save NM; 
ML 12; AL N; for more information see Part 9, New Monsters). 
Even if the victim should wake up, he or she will be unable to fight 
back since his or her arms will be pinned. No spells can be cast 
when held by the grab grass because the appropriate gestures 
cannot be made. There is a 5% chance per round of breaking free, 
+5% per strength point greater than 12. The white roses are actual- 
ly twelve vampire rose bushes (AC 7; HD 4; hp 18 each; #AT 1; D 
1-8; MV 30 (10); Save F2; ML 12; AL C; for more information, see 
Part 9, New Monsters). They will attack any who wander off the 
path, wrapping a stalk around a victim’s neck after he or she is 
securely held by the grab grass. Victims are injected with hypnotic 
anesthetic, and must save vs. Spells or lose all will to fight, allowing 
the vampire rosebush to automatically drain 1-8 points of blood per 
round. 
23. THE BLOOD-STAINED ARCH. 
Three massive stones form an archway over the path, in front of 
the door. It appears as if the only way to get to the door is to 
pass beneath the dolmen arch. A steady patter of blood drips 
from the underside of the arch, and it looks extremely difficult 
to pass under the arch without becoming blood-spattered. 
There is, indeed, no other way to reach the door except by passing 
under the arch. The dolmen arch is a legendary artifact of the 
Amber family. The blood which drips from the arch is in atonement 
for all the bloody crimes committed by the Ambers. Every individ- 
ual who passes beneath the arch must save vs. Spells. If they make 
their saves, nothing happens. If they do not make their saves, they 
gain temporary luck. Individuals who fail their saves will gain a 
bonus of 1-6 (roll ld6) on “to hit” and damage rolls, all saving 
throws, and armor class (the same bonus for each) for the duration 
of the time spent in room #34, The Throne Room. 
PART 4: THE CHAPEL 
24. THE MAIN CHAPEL. 
This large building is the Amber family chapel. Brightly colored 
stained glass windows are inset into the walls. The pews are 
made of intricately carved oak and have plush velvet cushions. 
The floor is wood parquet, making a colorful pattern. The entire 
building seems strangely garish and lewdly decorated for a 
religious house. Lined up along the south, east and west walls 
are 24 marble statues. The statues, while carved wearing saintly 
gowns, actually seem to mock saintliness. The sarcastic, leering 
faces of the statues all bear a distinctive Amber family cast. 
The statues actually are the enchanted bodies of famous (or in- 
famous) members of the Amber family. They periodically come to 
life. Every statue has a 1 in 6 chance of coming to life when a party 
member passes within 10. The statues are AC 4 and have 8 HD. 
They have no physical attack, but do possess one random magical 
ability. Roll ld6: 1 =bless, 2 = curse, 3 =turn to stone, 4 =bestow 
magical gift, 5 =raise an attribute of one individual 1 point, 6 =cause 
any disease. 
The blessing gives a permanent +1 modifier to all saving throws, the 
number needed to hit, and damage done. Typical curses are dim- 
inution to half size, growth of a long heavy tail slowing movement 
by half or change of alignment. Turn to stone is the same as the 
spell. Bestowal of a magic gift is at random, using the D&D Expert 
Game magic item tables (or the DM’s choice). An attribute is 
raised +1 only and is chosen randomly. Ability scores cannot be 
raised above 18. Typical diseases are malaria (-4 to hit until cured) 
and the Amber Death (death in 1-20 turns unless cured, the corpse 
turns amber). The DM is encouraged to modify and/or expand this 
brief sampling. 
The animated statue must touch a victim for the magical power to 
take effect. One statue can affect one victim only. A touched victim 
is still entitled to a save vs. Spells. A successful save negates the 
magical effect of the touch, even if the effect was beneficial. Any 
statue reduced to 0 hit points or less will stop moving; otherwise, 
animated statues will try to touch victims, moving at 40 per round. 
Underneath the altar at the front of the chapel is a trap door leading 
to an underground passage to room #50 in the Dungeon (Part 6). 
If the party has not already adventured in the East Wing (Part 5), 
the DM is advised to ignore the trap door until the party has 
explored this section of the mansion. The DM should make sure, 
however, that the party eventually finds one of the two entrances 
to the dungeon (the other is in room #42 The Black Room). The 
party must venture into the dungeon to successfully escape the 
gray mist. 
25. BURIED ALIVE! 
You hear a muffled, forlorn howling and a faint scratching 
sound that seems to be coming from somewhere beneath the 
chapel paving stones to the west. 
10 

===== PAGE 12 =====
Madeline Amber (Magdalkne D’Amberville) (AC 9; F8; hp 36; #AT 
1; D 1-8+1; MV (40); Save F8; ML 10; AL C) is buried here. She fell 
into a cateleptic trance, a condition that resembles death, and was 
buried by her eccentric brother Charles Amber (Charles D’Am- 
berville) who thought she was dead, She is now frantically trying to 
dig her way out of the crypt. If the party rescues her, she will be 
grateful enough to aid them (only while they are in the chapel). 
Unfortunately, she will attack her brother Charles on sight should 
the party encounter him (see room #30, Chapel Library). 
While this room looks like a bedroom for a cleric, it is much 
more lavishly furnished than is usual. The room appears to be 
empty. - 
26 a-f. MONASTIC CELLS. 
Each room is a sparsely furnished cell. Seated on the wooden slab 
which serves as a bed in each cell are three zombies dressed in 
amber monk’s robes (AC 8; HD 2; hp 9 each; #AT 1; D 1-8; MV 
(40’); Save F1; ML 12; ALC. The zombies will, of course, attack on 
sight unless turned by a cleric. As soon as the zombies attack in 
one room, all the other zombies will come rushing out of the other 
cells to attack the party. 
27. CONSULTATION ROOM. 
Ten chairs are arranged in a semi-circle around a desk and 
chair. Seated in each of the eleven chairs is a skeleton-like figure 
dressed in cowled amber monk’s robes. 
The figures in the ten chairs around the desk are skeletons (AC 7; 
HD 1; hp 5 each; #AT 1; D 1-6; MV (20); Save F1; ML 12; AL C) 
that will attack on sight. The figure behind the desk is a bone golem 
(AC 2; HD 8; hp 36; #AT 4; D 1-8 each; MV (40); Save F4; ML 12; 
AL N) who will also attack on sight. The bone golem cannot be 
easily distinguished from a skeleton until it attacks because its 
extra arms are hidden by the robe and desk. Hanging around the 
neck of the bone golem is a large, ornate silver key worth 500 gp, 
which can be used to open the silver gate to Averoigne in the 
Dungeon (Part 6). 
This room is empty, except for the furniture. 
29. RELIQUARY STORAGE 
This room appears to be astorage area for typical clerical items. I 
An inspection will reveal four holes in the ceiling. The holes are one 
foot in diameter and stretch six feet into the ceiling. 
Hole #1 ends in a killer bee hive with 6 killer bees (AC 7; HD 1/2; 
hp 1 each; #AT 1; D 1-3 +special; MV (50); Save F1; ML 9; AL 
N), 4 large killer bees (HD 1; hp 5 each), and a queen bee (HD 
2; hp 9) which can sting repeatedly without dying. 
Hole #2 ends in a sack that is filled with 1,000 gp. 
Hole #3 ends in a large bladder filled with water. 
Hole #4 ends in the nest of a cockatrice (AC 6; HD 5; hp 23; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 + petrification; MV (30) fly (60); Save F5; ML 7; 
AL N). 
Reaching up into the holes with a hand will do nothing since the end 
of the hole cannot be reached. Poking a pole or spear up the holes 
will stir up the killer bees, break open the sack of gold pieces, burst 
the water-filled bladder, or knock down the cockatrice’s nest (un- 
less the party, in the DM’s opinion, is extremely careful). The falling 
water and falling coins are harmless. The killer bees and the 
cockatrice will attack. 
30. CHAPEL LIBRARY. 
As you are about to open the door, you hear a voice softly call: 
“Please be quiet. I can’t stand loud noises!” 
Charles Amber lives in the library. Charles (AC 9; M9; hp 18; #AT 
1; D 1-4 +spells; MV (40); Save M9; ML 8; AL C; S 9, I 16, W 10, D 
10, C 7, Ch 11) is extremely sensitive to all sensations and cannot 
stand noises above a whisper, lighting brighter than shadows, any 
but the most bland tastes, normal smells, or to be touched by 
anything other than the sheerest silk clothing. He believes that he 
has gone mad, as have so many other Ambers, because he swears 
he can hear his dead sister crying out to him from her grave. 
Charles is not insane. His sister is not dead and she really is calling 
on him to release her from her premature burial (see area #25, 
Buried Alive!). If the party rescued Madeline Amber, she will 
attack her brother as soon as she hears his voice (assuming she is 
still with the party, of course). 
If the party ignored Madeline Amber ( AC 9; F8; hp 36; #AT 1; 
D 1-8 +1; MV (40); Save F8; ML 10; AL C) they will hear a distant 
cracking boom and shortly she will burst into the room. Her hair 
will be disheveled, her grave clothes tattered, her fingernails brok- 
en and her hands bloodied from the effort to dig herself out. 
Madeline has gone completely insane, and will first attack her 
brother and then anyone else nearby. She will attack as if a ber- 
serker (+2 to hit and damage) using the sword which was buried 
with her. 
While Charles is over sensitive to sensations, he usually manages 
to overcome his handicap and fight normally. His spells are: 
First level: darkness, hold portal, sleep 
Second level: detect invisible, invisibility, phantasmal 
Third level: dispel magic, hold person, infravision 
Fourth level: wall of ice, wizard eye 
Fifth level: animate dead 
force 
11 

===== PAGE 13 =====
Charles wears a ring of spell turning with 8 charges. The room 
also contains a wooden chest beneath an old tablecloth, which 
holds Madeline’s old war shield +1, 10,000 cp and 5,000 gp. 
31. VESTRY. 
~ ~~ ~ 
You open the door and see a number of apparently empty 
clerical robes dancing a bizarre, repetitive dance around a circle 
painted on the floor in amber-colored paint. 
The robes are empty robes that have been magically animated. 
The dance was once part of some obscure Amber family ritual. The 
meaning has long since been lost, but it amuses the Ambers to let 
the robes dance on. 
32. SANCTUM SANCTORUM. 
A man dressed in richly gilded plate mail and amber-colored 
robes, wearing a cross of carved amber around his neck, kneels 
praying at a golden altar. As soon as the door opens he turns 
and asks in a polite voice, “May 1 help you?” 
The man is Simon Amber (Simon D’Amberville) (AC 2; C14; hp37; 
#AT 1; D 1-6 + spells; MV (40); Save C14; ML 10; AL C; S 12, I 16, 
W 18, D 11, C 9, Ch 13) and he has no intention of helping the 
party. He is thoroughly corrupt and evil. Simon will not attack the 
party at first, but will wait until he gains some advantage, such as 
surprise or the party’s trust, and then attack. He is cunning and 
sneaky. He prefers to catch the party off guard. He will smile falsely 
and act the part of a benefactor until he lulls the party’s suspicions, 
then he will attack. Simon’s spells are: 
First level: cause light wounds x2, detect magic, 
Second level: blight, know alignment, hold person, 
Third level: continual darkness, cause disease x2 
Fourth level cause serious wounds x2 
Fifth level: insect plague, quest x2, finger of death 
darkness, cause fear 
silence 15’ r, snake charm 
Simon has the following magic items: a potion of control plants, a 
ring of protection +1, a broom of flying and a snake staff. The 
altar is only gold plated, but is still worth 2,000 gp. 
If Simon throws a quest spell on anyone the quest will be to find the 
tomb of Stephen Amber. Simon is a friend of Charles Amber, who 
animates dead so Simon can use them as the chapel’s attendants. 
33. CHOIR LOFT 
Most of the choir loft is filled with statues whose mouths are 
gaping open. The statues do not have the Amber family resemb- 
lance. Along the south wall is the keyboard to an organ. You do 
not see any organ pipes. 
The 88 statues are victims of the Amber family. The statues were 
once normal humans with singing ability. The Ambers turned the 
singers into stone and then magically animated the stone statues. 
When one of the keys on the keyboard is pressed down one of the 
statues will sing one note. The Ambers can thus play entire songs 
using the stone choir. Except for the choir and keyboard the room 
is empty. 
PART 5: EAST WING 
34. THE THRONE ROOM. 
The walls of this room are covered with mosaics depicting 
courtly scenes. The floor is polished marble. Two thrones sit 
atop a raised dais. At the east end of the room a red velvet 
carpet runs from the double doors to the thrones. A skeletal 
figure sits on each throne. The skeletons are dressed in rotting 
velvet. One skeleton holds a jeweled mace. Twenty more ske- 
letons stand on guard, ten each along the north and south walls. 
The skeletons wear rusted armor and carry halberds with rust- 
ed blades. Another dozen skeletons, wearing decayed court 
dress, stand in front of the thrones. 
These skeletons are all that remains of Henry Amber’s (Henri 
D’Amberville’s) coronation. The skeletons’ bones were fused by 
the devastation so that they stand in rigid poses, a courtier bowing, 
a lady leaning sideways to gossip, and so on. 
The devastation resulted from the curse of Prince Stephen Amber. 
The prince was murdered by his brother Henry and Stephen’s wife 
Princess Catherine (Catharine D’Amberville), or so they thought. 
When the culprits were sure that Prince Stephen was dead and 
were ready to usurp his rightful place with the help of the Princes of 
Glantri, they held this coronation; then the devastation struck. 
Princess Catherine, a 13th level magic-user, was warned by a 
premonition seconds before the devastation struck. She managed 
to save herself by magic jarring into her throne. Since nothing 
survived the devastation, she has been stranded in the throne ever 
since. She will attempt to take possession of any one individual 
who enters the room (roll randomly to determine which charac- 
ter). Princess Catherine is both evil and hopelessly insane due to 
her disembodied ordeal. 
There is only a 50% chance on the first round she takes possession 
of a body that the body can be effectively controlled, because she 
has been without a body for so long. Each round thereafter, the 
chance to control the body increases by 10% until either the body is 
under control or Catherine’s soul is destroyed. Once a body is 
controlled, Catherine can use the body to cast the spells she 
knows and attack. Her spells are: 
First level: detect magic, hold portal, light, read 
Second level: detect invisible, ESP, knock, levitate 
Third level haste, hold person, infravision, invisibility 
Fourth level: confusion, dimension door, polymorph 
Fifth level: animate dead, contact higher plane, hold 
Sixth level: death spell, remove geas, invisible stalker 
languages 
10’ r 
others 
monster 
12 

===== PAGE 14 =====
In a secret compartment in the back of her throne (protected by a 
poison needle trap) are Catherine’s crown jewels; 7 matched pie 
ces of jewelry worth of a total of 12,000 gp. 
35. BALLROOM. 
The floor of this large room is wood parquet. The acoustics in 
this room are excellent. In the center of the north wall is a 
balcony. You notice several musical instruments lying on the 
balcony. Swinging from a large chandelier in the center of the 
room is a small, hairy, mishapen figure dressed in the clothing of 
a court jester. He holds the ends of three long chains. The 
chains are connected to iron collars around the necks of three 
white furred apes who are standing on the floor. 
The figure in the jester’s clothing is Little-Ape (Petit-Singe) who 
was court jester to Stephen Amber. The Amber family continually 
mocked Little-Ape because the man was small, permanently 
stooped, had overly long arms and was exceptionally hairy so that 
he did somewhat resemble a small ape. But, though his body was 
grotesque, Little-Ape was a man, and he concealed his pride and 
lust for vengeance. He bided his time, studying the magical books 
of the Amber family and watching their magical rituals until he 
mastered two spells: polymorph other and charm monster. 
Little-Ape used these spells for revenge against the three members 
of the Amber family who taunted him the most. Those three were 
polymorphed into white apes and then charmed to serve Little- 
Ape. 
Little-Ape’s revenge amused Stephen Amber, and he made the 
polymorph and charm spells permanent. Though many family 
members demanded Little-Ape’s death, Stephen decided on 
another punishment. Little-Ape (AC 9: HD 1; hp 5; #AT 1; D 1-4; 
MV (40); Save F1; ML 9; AL N) has been geased so that he will die 
if he leaves the ballroom. Stephen supplied the jester with several 
potions of longevity (only one remains) and a bag of unending 
nourishment, a magical item which provides enough food and 
water for four humans (or in this case, one human and three apes) 
once per day. 
Little-Ape will only attack if for some reason he mistakes a party 
member for an Amber (for example, a party member wearing 
stolen Amber clothing). He will use his two spells before fighting 
with his dagger. Otherwise, the DM should roll Little-Ape’s reac- 
tion to the party normally (using the system suggested in the D&D 
Basic game rules). 
36. LIBRARY. 
This room is obviously a library. Its walls are lined with shelves 
filled with books and scrolls. There is someone sitting in a 
leather covered chair in the center of the room reading a book. 
Though the individual has the body of a human, his head is that 
of a large collie dog. Around his neck is a small amber whistle. 
The individual is Claude Amber (Claude D’Amberville), (AC 3; 
F10; hp 56; #AT 1; D 1-8+2; MV (20); Save F10; ML 10; ALL; S 16, I 
18, W 10, D 14, C 13, Ch 15). He wears plate mail under his robes. 
Claude is an unusual member of the Amber family. Not only has he 
chosen to follow the teachings of Law, but he is continually trying 
to get the other family members to mend their ways. Claude is 
gentle, unless aroused by injustice. While he recognizes their 
faults, Claude is still faithful to the Amber family. 
Claude is not likely to attack the party unless threatened by them. 
Before combat, he will blow the amber whistle. Claude is the leader 
of the lupins in room #44, The bedroom. They will come to his aid 
if he is attacked, just as he will come to their aid if they are attacked. 
A careful search of the room will reveal that three of the scrolls are 
treasure items. Claude will allow the party to search the library 
only if they first pay a 5,000 gp deposit as payment should they 
discover any valuables (which, after all, belong to the Amber 
family). 
Scroll #l is a cursed scroll which turns the reader into a dog 
Scroll #2 is a magic-user/elf scroll with five spells: locate 
Scroll #3 is a piece of parchment containing instructions on 
(save applicable). 
object, fireball, wall of ice, ice storm, wall of fire. 
how to escape the gray mist. 
The third scroll reads as follows: 
To Those Who Would Be Free: 
The secret that will break the curse surrounding Castle Amber 
and lift the gray mist is engraved on the inside lid of Stephen 
Amber’s casket. To summon Prince Stephen’s tomb from 
beyond space and time, four magical items are needed. The 
four items, The Enchanted Sword of Sylaire, The Viper 
Circled Mirror, The Ring of Eibon, and a potion of time 
travel, can all be found in Averoigne, our old homeland. Touch 
ring to viper’s tail. Anoint the sword with the potion. Shatter the 
mirror with the sword, and Prince Stephen’s tomb will appear. 
Search first for the Gate of the Silver Keys. 
(Scrawled on the bottom of the scroll in another handwriting 
are these notes:) 
Sylaire - The Enchanted Sword - Sephora? 
Vyones - The Viper Circled Mirror - Gaspard 
Perigon - The Ring of Eibon - Luc le 
Les Hiboux?Ximes? - potion of time travel - 
Malachie? 
du Nord 
C haudronnier 
Azedarac? Jehan? 
Moriamis? 
13 

===== PAGE 15 =====
37. BEDROOM. 
The room holds a single bed and typical bedroom furniture. The 
room appears to be empty. 
Except for the bedroom furniture, the room is empty. 
38. CARD ROOM. 
The walls of this room are wood paneled. The floor is cov- 
ered by a plush carpet. A number of card tables and wooden 
chairs are scattered around the room. Sitting behind a table in 
the middle of the room is a matronly woman dressed like a 
gypsy. On the table in front of her are 10 cards, face down. The 
cards are arranged in two rows of five cards each. As soon as 
the door opens, the woman says, “Welcome, come in, come in. 
The cards know all. The cards see all. Make yourselves comfor- 
table. Who’ll be the first to choose a card? Pick a card, any 
card.” 
The woman is Madam Camilla Amber (Mdre Camille D’Amber- 
ville). She is not actually in the room. The image the party sees is 
the result of a projected image spell with a wizard eye spell so 
that Madam Camilla can see what is happening. If the image of the 
woman is touched, it will disappear. The image will also disappear 
after three turns when the spell duration ends. 
The 10 cards all come from the tarot deck. All the cards are 
magical. One character can take only one card (if he or she so 
wishes), and the DM should roll ldlO to determine the card chos- 
en. The character will find it impossible to pick a second card. The 
cards retain their magical powers even if Madam Camilla disap- 
pears. They lose their magical ability after being chosen. The 10 
cards, their descriptions, and their powers are 
1) THE MOON (LA LUNE) - 
Description: A man sits near a tree with a dog at his feet. He plays 
a lute and sings a song for a woman standing on a nearby balcony. 
A giant crayfish is slowly crawling up to the balcony toward the 
woman. High overhead, a crescent moon shines. This card, when 
chosen, was upside down. 
Magical Power: The chooser temporarily goes insane (no saving 
throw). He or she will attack one party member at random, fighting 
with weapons or spells. The insanity will last one turn only. 
2) THE KING OF WANDS (LE ROI DE BATON) - 
Description: An elderly, bearded man sits on a throne. The man 
wears a crown and holds a scepter. 
Magical Power: The chooser receives a gift of a magic 
wand/staff/rod chosen by the DM or at random. 
3) THE QUEEN OF CUPS (LA REINE DES COUPES) - 
Description: A queenly figure stands holding a cup in her right 
hand and a scepter in her left hand. 
Magical Power: The chooser receives a magic cup which will 
grow warm when someone tells a lie to its holder. The cup has 2-5 
charges. 
4) THE FOOL (LE MAT) - 
Description: A young man dressed in the brightly colored cloth- 
ing of a court jester pauses momentarily on the edge of a cliff. The 
man is smiling. He is not bothering to watch where he is going. 
Magical Power: The chooser has a feeblemind spell cast on him 
or her. 
5) THE PAGE OF COINS (LE VALET DES DENIERS) - 
Description: A young man dressed in the clothing of a page holds 
up a large coin. This card is upside down when chosen. 
Magical Power: All the coins the chooser is carrying suddenly 
disappear. 
6) STRENGTH (LA FORCE) - 
Description: A man holds back a lion using only his bare hands. 
At the man’s feet lies a club. 
Magical Power: The chooser has a strength spell cast on him or 
her. 
7) THE WHEEL OF FORTUNE (LA ROUE DE FORTUNE) - 
Description: A blind-folded woman turns a large wheel. On top of 
the wheel sit a man and a woman rejoicing at their good fortune. At 
the bottom of the wheel, a man falls off into a chasm. 
Magical Power: Have the chooser roll 2d6. On a roll of 2-5 the 
character will be -2 on attacks and saving throws for the next 2-20 
turns. On a roll of 6-8 nothing happens. On a roll of 9-12 the 
character will be +2 on attacks and saving throws for the next 2-20 
turns. 
8) DEATH (LA MORT) - 
Description: A skeleton wielding a scythe stands on barren 
wasteland. 
Magical Power: The chooser must save vs. Death Ray or die. 
9) THE KNIGHT OF SWORDS (LE CHEVALIER DES 
Description: A man with a sword raised high rides a rearing 
horse. The man wears a plumed hat and a flowing red cape. This 
card is upside down when chosen. 
Magical Power: The chooser receives a cursed +1 weapon ap- 
propriate to the character’s class. Its user will always attack when 
sighting potential opponents and will continue to fight until the 
wielder or all enemies are dead. Spell casters can attack with spells 
or this weapon. Remember that its possessor will not voluntarily 
get rid of a cursed weapon and will use it in preference to other 
weapons. 
EPEES) - 
10) THE JUGGLER (LE BATTELEUR) - 
Description: A man in a wide-brimmed hat stands in front of 
various objects placed at random on a table. The man points a 
wand in his right hand toward the sky while pointing with his left 
hand toward the ground. 
Magical Power: If the chooser is not a spell caster, he or she 
receives a ring of spell storing with 4 spells of the DM’s choice 
stored in it (ventriloquism, knock, fly and dimension door are 
recommended). Otherwise nothing happens. 
39. THE BLUE ROOM. 
The walls and ceiling of this room are painted blue. The floor is 
covered with an azure colored carpet. The incense of cedar, 
saffron, and ambergris fills the room. The room contains miscel- 
laneous furniture, all dyed blue. The room appears to be empty. 
Except for the furniture, the room is empty. 
40. THE WHITE ROOM. 
A snow-white carpet covers the floor of this room. The walls 
and ceiling are ivory colored. You can smell the incense of 
jasmine, ginseng and mandrake root. The white colored furni- 
ture in the room is covered with a layer of frost. The tempera- 
ture in the room is freezing. A giant, white, six-legged lizard 
stares at vou. 
14 

===== PAGE 16 =====
a, 
3 
a, 
I- 
- 
0 0 
I 
0 0 
a, 
I 
0 0 
E 
a, a 
0 
E 

===== PAGE 17 =====
Pr 0 

===== PAGE 18 =====
This illustration shows the location of the dungeon under Castle Amber. The northern 
passage leads to the trap door in the chapel (area 24) and the eastern passage leads to 
the trap door in the Black Room (area 42). Both trap doors lead to 40-foot-high 
staircases that wind steeply down into the dungeon. 

===== PAGE 19 =====
The Tomb of Stephen Amber 
N t0-l door 
mud 
water 
flame 
1 square = 10 feet 

===== PAGE 20 =====
The lizard is a frost salamander* (AC 3; HD 12*; hp 50; #AT 5 + 
special; D 1-6 (~4)/2-12 + 1-8; MV (40); Save F12; ML 9; AL C). 
Piled in a corner of the room, beneath a layer of snow, are 6,000 sp 
and 8,000 gp. 
41. THE GREEN ROOM. 
The walls and ceiling of this room are painted green. An 
emerald- colored carpet covers the floor. The room is empty of 
furniture. The scent of sandlewood, roses and musk fills the 
room. A giant man stands in the center of the room. The giant’s 
skin is pale green and his hair and long shaggy beard are dark 
green. He holds a two-handed sword. A normal sword is belted 
at his waist. He is dressed in leather clothing dyed green. 
The man blocks the other doorway in the room. The green man will 
tell the party that the only way they can pass is if they cut his head 
off. He will offer them the use of his two-handed sword (the only 
weapon which can harm him). If a character takes the sword, 
attacks the green man and rolls an unmodified 16 or greater it will 
cut the giant’s head off. In the meantime, the giant will attack the 
wielder of the two-handed sword, attacking as an 8 HD monster, 
doing 1-8+3 points of damage. The party can turn and leave, but 
they must fight the green man to use the other door. The green 
man is immune to all spells. He can only be struck and killed if his 
head is cut off with the two-handed sword, otherwise, he takes no 
damage from attacks. His two-handed sword will not hurt anyone 
but himself. 
42. THE BLACK ROOM. 
Ebony paint covers the walls and ceiling of this room. A sable 
carpet covers the floor. The scent of henbane, assaofetida, and 
hellebore root fills the room. All the furniture in the room is 
lacquered black. The room appears to be empty. 
A close inspection of the room will reveal that while the room is free 
of monsters and treasure, the carpet conceals a trap door in the 
northeast corner leading to an underground passage to room 46, 
the Magical Letter Squares (in Part 6, The Dungeon). 
43. THE RED ROOM. 
A blood-red carpet covers the floor. The walls and ceiling have 
been painted scarlet. The incense of sulpher, benzoin and 
euphorbium fills the room. The furniture in the room has been 
lacquered red. A large man stands in the center of the room. 
The man has scarlet skin and yellow hair. He wears reddish- 
gold armor. His shield shines like the sun. 
This man is a member of the Brotherhood of the Sun (AC 0 ; HD 
12; hp54; #AT 1; D 1-8+3; MV (40); Save F12; ML9; AL L; for more 
information see Part 9, New Monsters). A leakproof, red-hot iron 
chest contains a molten pool of gold; when cool (solid) it is worth 
5,000 9p. 
The Sun Brother has taken service with Claude Amber in return 
for Claude’s past help in slaying an evil efreeti. 
44. BED ROOM. 
In this room are eight humanoids who have the heads of large 
doss. 
The canine-like humanoids are lupins (AC 6; HD 2; hp 9 each; #AT 
1; D 1-8; MV (40); Save F2; ML 9; AL L; for more information see 
Part 9; New Monsters). The lupins are led by Claude Amber 
(room #36) and will go to his aid if he calls for help. They are 
protecting a treasure chest which holds 7,000 gp, a wand of fire 
balls (6 charges) and a displacer cloak. 
45. FOYER. 
This room is an antechamber leading outside. You notice that 
the gray mist still surrounds the castle. Inside the room are six 3’ 
tall humanoids with pasty gray-green skin, large saucer-shaped 
eyes and pointed ears. 
The 3’ tall humanoids are gremlins (AC 7; HD 1**; hp 5 each; #AT 
special; D special; MV (40); Save El; ML 12; AL C; for more 
information see Part 9; New Monsters). They are whimsical 
creatures with an evil sense of humor. As soon as the party opens 
the door the gremlins will attack by radiating their chaotic area of 
effect in a 20 radius. Anyone who does not save vs. Spells each 
round will find that everything is going wrong. This chaotic aura 
can cause mechanical devices to not work, belt buckles to pop 
open, or axe-heads to fall off, all at the whim of the gremlins. Any 
attacks on a gremlin that miss may hit the attacker; the DM should 
roll for hitting. Any spells cast at the gremlins will affect the caster, 
if a save vs. Spells is failed. Gremlin magic is more playful than 
deadly. 
PART 6: THE DUNGEON 
46. MAGICAL LETTER SQUARE. 
J 
A large square grid has been painted on the floor in the middle of 
this room. The grid is five 10’ x 10 squares long and wide, a total 
of 25 squares. A huge capital letter has been painted in the 
middle of each square. There is a door on the other side of the 
room, but to reach it you must step on several of the painted 
squares. 
The grid is a magical “letter square.” Notice that the letters on the 
grid spell out the same five names if read from right to left, left to 
right, top to bottom or bottom to top. Each five-letter name is the 
name of a magical spirit with special powers. The letter square can 
be used to invoke one of these powers or to invoke the basic magic 
of the letter square itself. 
If a character walks on the letter square without spelling out one of 
the five names or stands on one of the letters that character will be 
affected by the power of the letter square - lunacy. 
Lunacy: Any character affected by lunacy will act normally, ex- 
cept when the moon is full, new or in its first or last quarter. When 
the moon is full, the character will either become violent and attack 
others for no apparent reason or will just sit and stare rapturously 
at the moon and perhaps howl. When the moon is new or in its first 
or last quarters, the character will become depressed and para- 
noid, believing good friends are deadly enemies. 
15 

===== PAGE 21 =====
If a character walks across the letter square stepping on five of the 
letters in order to spell one of the five names of the spirits, the 
character will be affected by the power of that spirit. Each spirit’s 
name can be invoked only once and then other characters may 
walk across the letter square to spell out the same name without 
being affected. The affects of each name are: 
GOHEN: The character gains 1-3 points of wisdom 
(cannot be raised above 18). 
ORARE: The character gains +2 on all saving throws. 
HASAH: The character is struck blind. 
ERARO: The character is transformed into a werewolf and 
NEHOG: The character gains 1-3 points of charisma 
should be run by the DM. 
(cannot be raised above 18). 
Note: All ill effects of the magical letter square can be removed with 
a remove curse spell. 
47 a-d. CELLS. 
You see four dungeon cells. The back and side walls of each cell 
are made of stone. The front wall is a grid of iron bars. In one cell 
you see a long-haired man holding a paint brush and a bucket of 
paint. He is huddled in the corner of the room, staring raptu- 
rously at a highly realistic painting of the moon on the back wall 
of his cell. In another cell you see a large man with the head of a 
bull. The other two cells appear to be empty. 
The man with the paint brush is in cell 47b. He is Gaston Amber 
(Gaston D’Amberville) (AC 9; M 9; hp 33; #AT 1; D 1-4 +1; MV 
(4O);SaveM9;ML6;ALN;S10,116,W7,D11,C12,Chll)who 
was caught in the magical letter square. He is a lunatic who has 
forgotten all his spells. He fights with a dagger he has hidden in the 
bucket. Anyone who has become a lunatic as a result of the 
magical letter square will enter the cell and join Gaston. The door is 
unlocked. 
Cell 47a is not really empty. It contains an invisible stalker (AC 3; 
HD 8*; hp 36; #AT 1; D 4-16; MV (40‘); Save F8; ML 12; ALN) that 
will attack anyone who enters the cell, surprising victimson a roll of 
1-5 (d6). After the first round, the DM is advised to allow characters 
to fight it at -4 to hit. 
The minotaur in cell 47c is actually an illusion. Cell 47d is empty. 
48a. MORGUE. 
This long corridor is very chilly, as if the temperature is being 
magically manipulated to remain cool. The north and south 
walls are lined with many rows of small doors. There are six 
rows of six 3’ x 3’doors on each wall. Other than these features, 
the corridor is emDtv. 
Upon investigation, the party will discover that there are small 
painted markings on five of the small doors. All the doors in the 
corridor open easily. The unmarked doors swing back to reveal a 
3’ x 3‘niche extending back into the wall for 6. The recessed space 
is empty. In the spaces behind the marked doors, however, are 
dead human bodies under sheets, one body behind each marked 
door. Each body is drained of blood and has had its brain neatly 
removed. 
This room is a storage area for the victims of the brain collector in 
room 48b. The brainless bodies are kept here until they can be 
disposed of or used for further research purposes. 
48b. THE BRAIN COLLECTOR. 
This room is equipped somewhat like an alchemist’s laboratory, 
though most of the equipment looks unfamiliar. There are a 
number of knives, scissors and other surgical tools. A metal 
table stands in the middle of the room. On it is strapped a 
human male. Near the table stands a large, horrible, unearthly 
creature on six crab-like legs. It has a grotesque bloated body 
covered with an oily yellow-orange membrane, from which 
protrude masses of short tentacles, four yellow, bulging eyes 
and a repulsive tooth-filled mouth in the top. There are five large 
lumps on the upper part of its body, just above the baleful eyes. 
‘his strange monster is a Neh-Thalggu, or brain collector (AC 2; 
HD lo*; hp 55; #AT 1 + spells; D 1-10 +spells; MV (60); Save F10; 
ML 10; AL C; for more information see Part 9, New Monsters). 
At some point during Castle Amber’s travels through time and 
space, the creature was able to cross through the dimensional 
barrier and take up residence within the castle. This room serves 
as its living quarters and laboratory. The man on the table is dead, 
his blood drained and his upper skull cut away. This creature 
collects brains by swallowing a removed brain; the brain then 
moves into a pocket in its head. It can collect up to 12 brains. If the 
brain collector is interrupted in the midst of collecting a brain it will 
furiously attack any intruders. The five lumps over its eyes show 
the presence of the brains it has already stolen. For each brain it 
collects the creature gains the ability to cast one magic-user spell 
of 1st-3rd level. The spells it can use are: 
First Level charm person, magic missile 
Second Level: levitate, phantasmal force 
Third Level: haste 
In a corner of the room is the brain collector’s junk bin. In it are the 
clothing, weapons and equipment of its victims. Most of the con- 
tents of the bin are worthless, but a thorough search will reveal 
seven 100 gp value gems in various pockets and pouches, 200 gp in 
coins, a shield +1 and a sword +2. 
49. MAGEN VATS. 
~~ ~ ~ 
This room contains a number of large metal vats and cauldrons, 
some of which contain irridescent, frothy liquids. Magical sym- 
bols are engraved on each vat and cauldron. There are many 
tables and shelves holding flasks and vials of various liquids, 
solids or powders. Standing in a silent row against the east wall 
are four human-like beings. All are naked, though two hold 
short swords. As the room is entered, the four beings rush to 
attack. 
This room is a creation room for magen (see Part 9, New Mons- 
ters), having been magically consecrated for such a purpose and 
then stocked with the necessary materials and equipment. This is 
where the powerful wizards of the Amber family design and create 
various types of magen. The four human-like beings are them- 
selves recently created magen, one of each type: a demos (AC 7; 
HD 3+2; hp 26; #AT 1; D short sword 1-6; MV (40); Save F4; ML 
16 

===== PAGE 22 =====
12; AL N), a hypnos (AC 7; HD 2*; hp 12; #AT 1; D charm person; 
MV (40); Save M2; ML 12; AL N), a caldron (AC 5; HD 4*; hp 20; 
#AT 1; D wraps victim with its arms and legs and secretes acid for 
1-10; MV (40); Save F4; ML 12; AL N), and a galvan (AC 3; HD 5*; 
hp 33; #AT 1; D lightning bolt for 3-18 or by weapon; MV (40); 
Save F5; ML 12; AL N). They have been instructed to remain in the 
room as guards and to destroy interlopers. 
It is quite impossible for the characters to make constructive use of 
any of the materials found in this room, as the complex magical 
formulae necessary at each step of the creation process are far 
beyond their collective knowledge. There is, however, a large iron 
safe stashed away under one of the tables. Inside are 5,000 gp 
worth of powdered gold and platinum in crystal vials, 2,000 gp 
worth of semi-precious stones, and a tiny, human-shaped figurine 
carved from gold-inlaid black onyx worth 800 gp. 
50. ALCHEMISTRY LABORATORY. 
This large room is outfitted as a complete alchemistry labora- 
tory with long wooden tables and myriad wood shelves filled 
with strange flasks and glassware: alembics, calcinators, sub- 
limators, athanors, retorts and distillation apparatus. 
As soon as all the characters, or as many characters as possible, 
are in the room, all the doors close magically and lock (as per a 
wizard lock spell). Spikes will not hold a door open nor will party 
members trying to hold the door open succeed. Only a knock spell 
will open the door (unless the party can figure out some reasona- 
ble alternative such as transmuting the stone door to mud). Once 
all the doors are shut, concealed vents will open and begin to fill the 
room with a black powdery cloud which moves as though it is alive. 
There are 20 vents spaced evenly throughout the room. Every 
round a character breathes in the fumes or comes into direct 
contact with the powdery cloud, the character must save vs. Spells 
or fall asleep. There is no place in the room to avoid the black dust. 
Amber family) will put to sleep those who breathe its fumes. It will 
The black powdery cloud is black lotus dust. The black lotus is a 
rare, highly poisonous and highly magical plant. Its fumes can bring 
death or ecstasy, depending on how the black lotus dust is pre- 
pared. This particular alchemical preparation (a secret of the 
cause exceptionally vivid dreams (or nightmares) and has the 
magical property of possibly making those dreams (or nightmares) 
come true. 
The DM can make up any dream he or she wishes, giving the 
character an equal chance for a good dream, a neutral dream or a 
nightmare. A DM also can use some or all of the suggested dream 
outlines given below. The more detail the DM can invent, the more 
interesting each dream becomes. Remember that dreams need not 
be logical. 
No matter what type of dream the individual has, the dream will 
become real if the individual fails to save vs. Spells a second time. 
The other characters will, of course, see only the end result of the 
dream. All the characters will awake at approximately the same 
time. 
Dream Suggestions: 
1) A dream that a winged god (or goddess) visits the character and 
decides to give the character the gift of flight. The character 
sprouts wings and soars among the clouds. The character will 
wake up with real wings if the save is not made. 
2) A dream that the character was captured by strange lizard folk, 
then put on display in an open cage in some unknown city. Fortu- 
nately a passing magic-user took pity on the character and tele- 
ported him or her safely back to where the dream began. 
3) A dream that the character saved the life of an important 
courtier in Glantri. The courtier befriended the character and 
successfully plotted in the character’s behalf. The character has 
been made an honorary Lord or Lady in Glantri (no lands or 
money go with the title, but the character does win the right to act 
like a Lord or Lady). 
4) A dream of endlessly running down hill away from a boulder 
which is rolling at the character. Fortunately the character wakes 
just before it crushes him or her. 
5) A dream of a strange land called Averoigne (see Part 7). The 
character will disappear from the room and will be out of play, but 
will awake in the clearing on the far side of the Gate of the Silver 
Keys at just about the same time that the party actually arrives and 
opens the Gate. 
6) A dream of suddenly being attacked while walking down some 
unknown dungeon corridor, by one monster rolled at random from 
the Wandering Monster Table for levels 4-5 in the D&D Expert 
rules. Conduct the fight normally. 
7) A dream about a glorious, heroic quest filled with dangers that 
the character successfully defeats. The character gains 1 exper- 
ience level immediately (with the minimum number of experience 
points) if the dream comes true. 
8) A dream that all the plantlife in the world suddenly gains demon- 
ic intelligence and plans to take over the world. The character is 
the only person who knows the truth. Fortunately he or she 
discovers an ancient artifact which, when destroyed, returns the 
plants to normal. Unfortunately no one will believe the PC’s story. 
(100 experience points anyway if the dream comes true.) 
9) A dream that one wandering monster, rolled randomly from the 
Wandering Monster Table for levels 6-7, suddenly breaks into a 
room where the character is alone. Conduct the fight normally. If 
the character is victorious and the dream comes true, the charac- 
ter receives the experience points plus one magical item rolled at 
random. 
10) A dream of a long terrible fall which ends in a worse crash (and 
death, if the dream is real). 
51. LAIR OF THE GREAT WORM. 
You see a huge mound of treasure 10 high by 10 wide by 40 
long lying in the middle of the room. A great portion of the 
treasure appears to be copper and silver pieces. 
The mound of treasure is actually a slime worm (AC 5; HD 10; hp 
64; #AT 1; D 2-12; MV (20’); Save F5; ML9; AL N; for more details 
see Part 9, New Monsters). This creature secretes a sticky slime 
that coats its back, so that coins, jewels, shields and other items of 
treasure stick to it when the worm rolls over the treasure. The 
slime does not affect attacks. This particular slime worm is so old 
that its back is completely covered with treasure. The monster will 
wait until the party begins to search the “pile of treasure” before 
attacking. 
The slime worm will swallow its prey whole on an unmodified “to 
hit” roll of 18 or better. Prey that has been swallowed will take 2-12 
17 

===== PAGE 23 =====
points of damager per round until rescued. 
The treasure consists of 50,000 cp, 10,000 sp, 3,000 gp and miscel- 
laneous bits of non-magical armor and weapons. 
52. BOBBING FOR A KEY. 
In the center of this otherwise bare room is a 10 foot deep 
sunken pit filled with liquid. A thin glass sphere floats in the 
middle of the pit. Inside the sphere can be seen a large silver 
key. 
The liquid is an acid and anyone falling into the pit must save vs. 
Death Ray or die. The acid will burn for 1-8 points of damage if 
someone puts their hand in it. The thin glass sphere will shatter 
unless it is delicately handled. If the key falls into the acid, the key 
will be ruined. This silver key is worth 500 gp and can be used to 
open the silver gate to Averoigne (see 57). 
53. THE DEMON OF DEATH. 
A pentagram surrounded by a circle has been painted in white 
paint on the floor in the middle of this room. An amber colored 
candle burns at each point of the pentagram. A hunting horn of 
amber hangs from a peg on one wall. There is movement in the 
darkness in the center of the pentagram and you see standing 
there a 10 tall humanoid covered with a dull gray scaly skin. Its 
gaunt body is hairless. Ivory fangs protrude from its mouth and 
its fingers end in metallic talons. Its eyes glow like smoldering 
coals and two huge bat-like wings grow out of its back. 
The creature inside the pentagram is a death demon (AC 4; HD 
7**; hp 32; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4 + paralysis and 2-8 + poison; MV (30) 
fly (60’); Save F7; ML 10; AL C; for more details see Part 9, New 
Monsters). Anyone struck by the creature’s adamantine claws 
must save vs. Paralysis or be paralyzed for 2-8 turns; those bitten 
must save vs. Poison at -2 or die. 
The death demon will promise anything if the party agrees to 
release it. All the party needs to do is break the magic circle by 
throwing dirt on it, covering it with a cloak or so on. If the death 
demon is freed it will immediately attack the party, as death dem- 
ons have no sense of gratitude but only the insatiable desire to 
destroy. The magic circle prevents the death demon from attack- 
ing. The horn on the wall, when blown, has the power to force any 
demon to return to its own plane of existence. It has only two 
charges remaining. 
54. STORAGE ROOM. 
The room is filled with dusty shelves. The shelves appear to be 
empty. There does not appear to be anything else in the room. 
Most of the shelves are empty, but at the back of one of the top 
shelves is a dusty, cobweb-covered roll of parchment. This parch- 
ment is the same as scroll #3 found in room 36, The Library 
-titled “TO Those Who Would Be Free”. 
55. KENNELS. 
This room is outfitted as a dog kennel. There are four dog- 
houses here and you see four reddish-brown hounds, each the 
size of a pony. 
The hounds are hellhounds (AC 4; HD 4*; hp 18 each; #AT 1; D 1-6 
or breathe fire for 4-24; MV (40); Save F4; ML 9; AL C). They will 
18 
not attack if any of the characters are dressed in the clothes of a 
member of the Amber family. 
Inside one doghouse are four gems worth 100 gp, 100 gp, 500 gp 
and 1,000 gp. 
56. ENTRANCE TO THE LAND OF THE GHOULS. 
In the middle of the room is a 10’ wide pit. The pit is guarded by 
six hideous, beast-like humans. 
The humans are ghouls (AC 6; HD 2*; #AT 3; D 1-3 each + 
paralyzation; MV (30); Save F2; ML 9; AL C). They are guarding a 
pit which leads to an underground labyrinth. This labyrinth even- 
tually leads to the land of the ghouls. While the land of the ghouls 
plays no part in the adventure as written in this module, the DM 
can create an underground labyrinth and ghoul kingdom to sup- 
plement the adventure, if he or she so desires. At the bottom of the 
pit (70 deep) is a treasure chest containing 3,000 gp and a spear 
+3. 
57. THE GATE OF THE SILVER KEYS. 
~ ~~ 
Set into the south wall is a 10 x 10’ silver gate with three large 
r keyholes. In front of the gate is a giant lion made of amber. 
The giant lion is an amber golem (AC 6; HD lo**; hp 47; #AT 3; D 
2-12/2-12/2-20; MV (60); Save F5; ML 12; AL N) which will attack 
as soon as the party opens the door. If the amber golem is killed, it 
will fall apart into pieces of amber. The amber is worth 5,000 gp. 
Inside the amber golem is a scroll. The scroll is the same as scroll#3 
in room 36, The Library - titled “To Those Who Would Be 
Free”. 
The silver gate leads to Averoigne (and eventually to the Tomb of 
Stephen Amber). It requires at least three silver keys to open the 
silver gate. All the silver keys found in Castle Amber are interchan- 
geable, but three must be turned simultaneously for the gate to 
open. (The DM may wish to modify the number of keys necessary 
to open the silver gate if the party is not doing well, since it is 
essential that the party open the gate and continue the adventure 
in Averoigne.) 
On the far side of the silver gate is a clearing beside a road in the 
midst of a dense forest. The gate works one way only. It will take 
party members to Averoigne, but will not return them to Castle 
Amber. Individuals in the clearing cannot see the gate, and the spot 
where it would stand is normal forest. 
PART 7: AVEROIGNE 
Averoigne is a province in a parellel world similar to medieval 
France. In this particular parallel world, magic is considered to be 
an evil pagan practice. Clerics do not cast spells, and spell casters 
in general are viewed with suspicion. While the ecclesiastical laws 
are not rigidly enforced, spell casters are subject to arrest and trial 
by the Inquisition (with subsequent execution left to the civil au- 
thorities). As long as the party uses its spells to occasionally aid the 
citizens of Averoigne without actively harming them, party 
members are not likely to be arrested. 
Averoigne is based on 11 short stories written by Clark Ashton 
Smith. Most of the stories originally appeared in Weird Tales in 
the 1930’s. CASiana Literary Enterprises, Inc., has graciously giv- 
en its permission to base this section of the adventure upon the 
Clark Ashton Smith Averoigne stories (for a complete listing of the 
stories, consult the bibliography at the end of Part 7). 

===== PAGE 24 =====
The wilderness map represents the Province of Averoigne. The 
area surrounding Averoigne province is not detailed and can be 
any type of terrain the DM wishes. 
The encounters in this part of the module are left sketchy since 
most take place in cities and would require more detail and space 
than is available in this module. The DM should flesh out each 
adventure as he or she desires, designing NPCs, town streets and 
other details as necessary. When exploring the wilderness off the 
main roads, the party is more likely to encounter normal animals, 
such as wolves, bears, panthers, hawks, snakes and so on, rather 
than monsters. A bibliography of the stories of Averoigne is given 
at the back of this module, so DMs may find inspiration for fleshing 
out these adventures if it is desired. 
The capital and major city of Averoigne is Vyones. Vyones is a 
walled city that houses a cathedral and the Archbishop of Vyones 
(the political and clerical leader of the province). Outside Vyones' 
walls is a large cemetery. The fertile plains around Vyones host 
numerous towns, hamlets, and taverns. The second largest city of 
Averoigne is Ximes. Ximes has smaller walls than Vyones, and the 
Bishop of Ximes lives here. The only other city in Averoigne is 
P6rigon. Pe'rigon is unwalled and houses an abbey. 
The largest villages in Averoigne are Touraine, Les Hiboux, Sainte 
(Ste) Ze'nobie, Cordeliers, Moulins, and La Frenaie. La Frenaie is 
also the name of a castle-chateau. Sylaire, Fausseflammes, Malin- 
bois, and Ylourgne are ruined chateaux. 
Averoigne is noted mainly for Averoigne Forest which fills three 
quarters of the province. The river Isoile runs from Ylourgne to the 
swamps around Les Hiboux. There are three main areas of cleared 
farmland in Averoigne around the three cities. The well-watered 
area around Vyones is the most fertile and houses the largest 
population. A road runs from Vyoyes to Ximes; a dirt track leads 
from Ximes to Phrigon and from Perigon to Vyones. 
The culture of Averoigne is similar to that of France during the 
High Middle Ages (c.A.D. 1100 - 1350). The original Averoigne 
stories cover a number of different time periods but for purposes of 
simplicity and playability all the Averoigne stories are consid- 
ered to occur roughly within the same era. Fausseflammes and 
Sylaire are gateways to earlier times.TheTomb of Stephen Amber 
cannot be found in Averoigne as it is constantly traveling through 
space, time and the varied planes of existence. 
Wandering Monsters 
Averoigne uses a special Wandering Monster Table. Check three 
times per day (morning, noon, and night) for wandering monsters. 
Encounters will occur on a roll of 1 or 2 on ld6. . 
Averoigne Wandering Monster Encounter Table 
Die 
Roll Monster Number Statistics 
1 G6rardde 1 AC 2; F7; hp 39; #AT 1; 
L' Automnet D 1-8+2; MV 60 (20); Save F7; 
ML 9; AL L. 
D 1-4 + spells; MV 120 (40'); 
Save M6; ML 8; AL N. 
D i-8+1; MV 90 (30); Save T14; 
ML 10; AL C. 
2 Gilles Greniert 1 AC 9; M6; hp 15; #AT 1; 
3 Jehan 1 AC 4; T14; hp 46; #AT 1; 
Mauvaissoirt 
4 Lycanthrope, 2-8 AC 5; HD 4*; hp 18 each; 
Werewolf #AT 1; D 2-8; MV 180 (60); 
Save F4; ML 8; AL C. 
5 Moriamist 1 AC 9; M11; hp 25; #AT 1; 
D 1-4 + spells; MV 120 (40); 
Save M11; ML 9; AL N. 
6 Pagans 3-30 AC 6; HD 1; hp 5 each; 
#AT 1; D 1-6; MV 90' (30'); 
Save F1; ML 8; AL N. 
#AT 1; D 1-4 or special; 
MV 120 (40') fly 240 (80); 
Save F3; ML 12; AL C. 
#AT 1; D 1-4 + special; 
MV 90 (30); Save F2; ML 12; 
AL C. 
7 Phantoms 1-4 AC 9; HD 6; hp 28 each; 
8 Shadow 1-12 AC 7; HD 2+2*; hp 11 each; 
?See descriptions below. 
Ggrard de I'Automne - Abilities: S 17,19, W 14, D 16, C 13, Ch 
15. Gerard is a professional troubadour. He travels from one 
chateau to another singing his poetry to the local lords and 
ladies. He is also skilled at fighting and is able to handle most 
dangerous situations. He carries a rapier and a hornbeam staff 
sharpened to a point at one end ( an excellent weapon vs. vam- 
pires). He also wears chain mail and carries a shield. G6rard is 
courteous and well-mannered. He is quite likely to travel with 
the party, at least until they reach a village, town or chateau. 
Gilles Grenier - Abilities: S 10, I 16, W 7, D 11, C 12, Ch 10. 
Gilles is a sorceror who specializes in mixing potions, particular- 
ly love potions. He does not usually practice black magic, but 
neither does he go out of his way to avoid black magic. Gilles 
murdered his wife Sabine in a fit of passion, and now the 
ingredients he uses to make his potions are cursed. He is able to 
make up any of the more common potions for a suitable price. 
However, there is a 50% chance that a potion he sells will have 
harmful effects, either the reverse of what is expected or it will 
be poison. His spells are: 
First level: detect magic, read languages 
Second level: detect invisible, locate object 
Third level: hold person, lightning bolt 
Jehan Mauvaissoir - Abilities: S 16, I 13, W 17, D 18, C 14, Ch 
15. Jehan is the retainer and associate of Azedarc, a black 
magician who cheated his way into becoming the Bishop of 
Ximes. Jehan Mauvaissoir is a thief and assassin. He is cunning, 
treacherous and completely without morals. Jehan will stop at 
nothing to protect Azedarc's secret. He will deny all knowledge 
of potions of time travel, but probably will try to slip the potion 
into the party's wine to be rid of them. If party members drink 
some of the potion they will be sent into the past and must visit 
Moriamis to return. 
Jehan prefers trickery to violence, and guile to fighting. He also 
uses the names of Sieur des Emaux and Melchire. Jehan and 
Azedarc can travel back and forth in time. Both are actually 
centuries old, though they do not appear aged. Jehan has the 
thieving abilities of a 14th level thief. He wears leather armor 
and uses a short sword and dagger. 
Moriamis - Abilities: S 12, I 16, W 18, D 15, C 13, Ch 17. 
Moriamis is a sorceress who was born in Averoigne before the 
inquisition. Her spells avoid the taint of black magic since no 
such distinction was made during her lifetime. She should be 
handled by the DM as a normal magic-user. She stole Azedarc's 
19 

===== PAGE 25 =====
secret of time travel and can brew a potion of time travel if 
needed. Moriamis is the mortal enemy of Azedarc and Jehan. 
She is quite likely to befriend the party and give them a potion of 
time travel for some favor. Her spells are: 
First level: charm person, detect magic, protection 
Second level: detect evil, ESP, phantasmal force 
Third level: dispel magic, fly, infravision 
Fourth level: charm monster, remove curse, wizard 
Fifth level: contact higher plane. hold monster 
Sixth level: reincarnation 
from evil, read magic 
eye 
X. ENTRANCE TO AVEROIGNE 
The party enters Averoigne through the Gate of the Silver Keys, 
emerging onto the map at this point. Any characters who dreamed 
of meeting the party in Averoigne and disappeared will appear here 
as the party arrives. This is a clearing alongside the road to Vyones 
and Ximes. Exploring will reveal that just around a bend in the road 
to the north is the Inn of Bonne Joissance, where the party may 
rest free of danger. 
It is important at this point that the party understand what they are 
searching for. The instructions on the scrolls - “To Those Who 
Would Be Free” - for breaking the curse on Castle Amber are 
engraved on the inside of the lid of Stephen Amber’s casket. 
However, Stephen Amber’s Tomb travels in time and space and 
thus must first be summoned. To summon the tomb the party 
must find four special magic items somewhere in the land of 
Averoigne. These items are 
1) The Enchanted Sword of Sylaire 
2) The Viper-Circled Mirror 
3) The Ring of Eibon 
4) A potion of time travel 
The scrolls indicate that the sword can be found in the ruins of 
Sylaire. The mirror may be found in Vyones. The ring is currently 
in Pkrigon. A potion of time travel may be found in several places, 
but Ximes is the most likely. The sword is owned by Sephora, the 
mirror by Gaspard du Nord, the ring by Luc le Chaudronnier, and 
the potions by Azedarc, Jehan Mauvaissoir, and Moriamis. 
The DM should make sure that the party possesses the instruc- 
tions on scroll #3 - “To Those Who Would Be Free” - at this 
point, even if the scroll has to miraculously appear. 
The DM should allow the Inn of Bonne Jouissance to be reasona- 
bly crowded. After the initial distrust of strangers fades, the local 
inhabitants will be quite willing to gossip. The following information 
can be gained by a liberal expenditure of money to buy drinks: 
1) Vyones, Pgrigon and Ximes are the three major cities of 
Averoigne. 
2) The Inn of Bonne Jouissance lies on the road to Vyones and 
Ximes: Vyones is to the north and Ximes is to the south. 
3) Sylaire is a ruined chateau with an evil reputation about 30 
miles to the east of the inn, across the river Isoile. 
4) Les Hiboux is a village in the swamps somewhere south of 
Ximes. 
5) Azedarc is the Bishop of Ximes. Opinion seems equally 
divided as to whether the man is a black magician masquer- 
ading as a bishop or a saintly, maligned man. 
None of the other names on the list are known to the local inhabit- 
ants of the inn. As the party travels around Averoigne, the DM may 
wish to give out further useful information when it is reasonable 
and necessary to do so. 
58. THE ENCHANTED SWORD OF SYLAIRE. 
The chances of the party getting lost searching for Sylaire are 
good. However, the DM should not let the party remain lost for too 
long before they stumble on Sylaire by accident. 
The area around Sylaire is brown, open moor studded with druidic 
stone pillars. Sylaire is both the name of the ruined castle and the 
name of an enchanted land. The path into this enchanted land 
leads through a stone arch. Beyond the arch the trees are larger 
and greener than those in Averoigne. Even the seasons seem 
different, as the sun shines longer and winter seems very far away. 
In this enchanted land only one high, round tower stands where the 
mighty castle of Sylaire once stood. 
The tower is the home of Sephora, chatelaine of Sylaire and a 
magic-user (AC 9; M14; hp 30; #AT 1 + spells; D 1-4 + special; MV 
120 (40); Save M14; ML 10; AL N). Sephora is very beautiful, with 
thick, curly chestnut hair bound with silver filigree. Her spells are 
First level: charm person, detect magic, hold portal, 
Second level: ESP, mirror image, phantasmal force, 
Third level: clairvoyance, dispel magic, hold person, 
Fourth level: growth of plants, hallucinatory terrain, 
Fifth level: conjure elemental, contact higher plane, 
Sixth level control weather, flesh to stone, reincarnation 
sleep 
wizard lock 
lightning bolt 
massmorph, polymorph others 
magic jar 
In addition to her spells, Sephora has the power to charm any male 
who sees her, if he fails to save vs. Spells. If she is attacked, the 
charmed males will fight to protect her. The DM may wish to give 
her two male guards already. 
It should be made clear to the party that if they are rash enough to 
attack Sephora, they will probably all die. Sephora’s initial reaction 
to the party will be beneficial, since no one enters Sylaire without 
her willing it. Sephora has a mission for the party. She knows of 
their need for the Enchanted Sword of Sylaire and will trade the 
sword in return for the party’s aid. A werewolf is stalking Sylaire 
and Sephora could use help in slaying the creature. She will warn 
the party that the werewolf, in human form, is a powerful 
magic-user. 
20 

===== PAGE 26 =====
The werewolf (AC 5; HD 4*; hp 24; #AT 1; D 2-8; MV 180 (60); 
Save M10; ML 8; AL C) is Malachie du Marias, who is also a high 
level magic-user (AC 9; M10; hp 24; #AT 1; D 1-4 + spells; MV 120 
(40’); Save M10; ML 8; AL C). When encountered, there is a 50% 
chance Malachie will be in werewolf form and a 50% chance he will 
be in human form. In werewolf form he will attack with his bite, 
using hit and run tactics if the party is too powerful. In human form 
he will cast spells. Given a chance to prepare a strategy, Malachie 
will assume human form and cast his spells and then change to a 
werewolf and attack. His spells are 
First level: darkness, magic missile, shield 
Second level: detect invisible, phantasmal force, web 
Third level dispel magic, haste, protection from 
Fourth level: dimension door, polymorph others, wizard 
Fifth level: animate dead. transmute rock to mud 
normal missiles 
eye 
To find Malachie the party must search the ruins and the forest 
around Sylaire, avoiding the pitfalls and creatures that lair there. 
The DM should create whatever challenges he or she desires. If 
Malachie is encountered at night he will have a pack of 2-5 wolves 
running with him (AC 7; HD 2+2; hp 11 each; #AT 1; D 1-6; MV 180 
(60); Save F1; ML8; AL N). 
The Enchanted Sword of Sylaire is a sword +3, +5 vs.undead.lts 
purpose is to slay undead and it will automatically kill any undead it 
hits on an unmodified score of 18 or better. It also can detect evil 
and detect invisible and gives the user the ability to fly (as per the 
spell) for up to three turns three times per day. Sephora will also 
give the party a scroll witha fly spell on it when they succeed in 
destroying the werewolf. 
59. THE VIPER-CIRCLED MIRROR. 
The Viper-Circled Mirror is a round mirror with a frame that looks 
like a bronze viper eating its tail. The mirror is owned by Gaspard 
du Nord (AC 9; M7; hp 25; #AT 1; D 1-4 + spells; MV 120 (40); 
Save M7; ML 8; AL N). Gaspard is a neutral magician who lives in 
Vyones. 
When the party arrives at Vyones they will find the town in an 
uproar. Most of the citizens will be crowded into the square listen- 
ing to the Archbishop of Vyones. The archbishop is describing a 
calamity about to befall the town. The evil black magician, Na- 
thaire, whom the citizens drove out of Vyones, has begun his 
revenge. Nathaire specialized in necromancy - magic involving 
the dead. He has taken great numbers of bodies and created a 
golem-like colossus. The colossus towers one hundred feet tall. It 
uses an entire tree for a club. Only magical weapons can harm it. 
The citizens of Vyones have no magical weapons. Their only 
defences are the city walls which the colossus will quickly batter 
down. Vyones is on the verge of panic. 
A citizen dressed in green and brown robes steps up to the podium 
and asks for silence. He tells the crowd that he thinks he knows a 
way that the colossus can be defeated. The man is Gaspard du 
Nord. Before he saw the error of his ways, he was one of Na- 
thaire’s pupils. Gaspard no longer practices magic, since it is a 
forbidden art. But he does remember the formula to a black 
powder which, when blown into the face of the colossus, will return 
it to its natural state, a dead body. 
Gaspard is willing to mix up a batch of the magic powder. He 
himself is not a warrior, so a group of adventurous volunteers is still 
needed to travel north to Ylourgne, where Nathaire is animating 
the colossus, and use the powder to stop the creature. 
Gaspard is willing to give to the party his most prized possession, 
the Viper-Circled Mirror, if they succeed in destroying the colos- 
sus. The Vyones City Council will add a 10,000 gp reward if the 
mission is successful. 
If the party tries to steal the mirror, they will first find it impossible 
to separate Gaspard from the crowd of citize‘ns. Secondly, Gas- 
pard does not have the mirror with him, nor is i\ in his quarters (he 
has buried it in a secret place). The citizens of $yones will not take 
kindly to any attack on Gaspard. Hundreds of armed citizens will 
arrest the party. They will be given a choice - beheading, or 
volunteering to destroy the colossus. If forced into the mission, the 
party will still receive the mirror from Gaspard upon completion of 
the task, but forfeits the 10,000 gp reward. 
If the party volunteers for the mission, they will meet Nathaire and 
the colossus in the forest north of Vyones. Since the colossus 
shakes the ground as it walks, the party will have plenty of advance 
warning. They will be able to set an ambush and attack with 
surprise. 
If the party is forced to fight the colossus instead of volunteering, 
they will meet the colossus right outside the walls of Vyones. 
Hundreds of bowmen line the walls to make sure the party tries to 
perform the task. The party will not be able to attack with surprise. 
The DM should make sure that the party has a fair chance to defeat 
the colossus. If they have not already journied to Sylaire, the DM 
might wish to have Gaspard hint that Sylaire holds a weapon useful 
against the colossus. The DM should then make sure that the 
colossus does not attack until the party returns from Sylaire. 
If the colossus should somehow prove unbeatable, the party 
should still receive the mirror as long as they made a reasonably 
valiant attempt to defeat the colossus. The colossus will ravage 
Vyones until nightfall, then move away to some other part of 
Averoigne. Gaspard will be among the survivors and will give the 
party the mirror as a reward for trying their best, even though they 
were defeated. 
The colossus (AC 8; HD loo*; hp 350; #AT 1; D 10-80; MV 240 
(80); Save F14; ML 12; AL C) is controlled by Nathaire who has 
magic jarred into the titanic body. His own body rides in a basket 
strapped to the back of the colossus. The colossusattacks asa21+ 
HD monster. 
Gaspard will make enough powder to allow five separate attempts 
at hurling it in the face of the colossus. The powder must be hurled 
from 10 or closer into the colossus’ face to work. If the party does 
not have the means of flying, it is still possible to hurl the powder 
from the top of the tallest building in Vyones (the cathedral) when 
the colossus comes within 10 of the tower. A successful attack 
with the powder will destroy the motivating force behind the colos- 
sus. It will crash to the ground, crushing Nathaire and his pupils. 
Attacks to hit with the powder while flying are normal. Attacks 
from the cathedral roof are at -4 to hit. 
60. THE RING OF EIBON. 
The Ring of Eibon is an heirloom belonging to Luc le Chaudronni- 
er, a white magician. Luc lives in the city of P6rigon. The city is 
currently being terrorized by a mysterious attacker known as the 
Beast of Averoigne. The Beast stalks its prey by night, killing both 
animals and men. The only portion of the kill which the Beast 
devours is the marrow inside the bones. 
Just before the party arrives at Pbrigon, a blazing red comet will 
21 

===== PAGE 27 =====
appear in the sky. The comet will hover over Averoigne, lighting up 
the night sky with its scarlet fires. The Beast and the comet appear 
at the same time. 
The party will be unable to find Luc le Chaudronnier until late at 
night. Luc is hunting the Beast of Averoigne, hoping to exorcise the 
foul murderer using the Ring of Eibon. The party will be able to 
track Luc to a clearing outside the Abbey of Perigon, where Luc 
and a number of men-at-arms tried to stop the Beast and were 
unsuccessful. 
The party arrives just in time to see a snaky figure climb the wall of 
the Abbey and a serpent-like tail disappear through the topmost 
window of the tallest tower in the abbey. Luc and the guardsmen lie 
on the ground outside the tower. Several guardsmen are dead; Luc 
is wounded but will recover. The Beast has stolen the Ring of 
Eibon. After the Beast stole the ring, Luc saw the Beast climb up 
the abbey tower wall and enter through the topmost window. 
The window is that of the cell belonging to ThGophile, the Abbot of 
Pe‘rigon. When the party enters the Abbey and climbs the bell 
tower stairs to the room all they will find is Theophile dressed in a 
black-cowled robe. He is unharmed. He saw nothing out of the 
ordinary. He claims that he was asleep until a few minutes ago 
when he was awakened by noises outside his window. 
The abbot begins pacing as he talks. Most of the room is lit by torch 
lights. However, one section of the room is lit by the blood-red light 
from the comet shining in through the window. During his pacing, 
the abbot will finally walk into the red light and stop. is over- 
come by an immediate transformation. The abbot Theophile be- 
comes the Beast of Averoigne. 
It is difficult to see the exact form of the Beast since it is surrounded 
by a swirling, shadowy red mist. Inside the blood-red mist, a black 
semi-serpentine form can barely be distinguished. The serpentine 
beast has a large flat snakish head with sharp serrated teeth, arms 
and a serpent’s tail instead of legs. Its arms end in ebony talons. On 
one finger is the Ring of Eibon. The ring is only visible when 
Th6ophile is in Beast form. 
The Beast of Averoigne (AC 0; HD 14*; hp 63; #AT 3; D 1-10/ 
1- 10/3-18; MV 150 (50); Save F 14; ML 12; AL C) will attack on 
sight. The transformation is instantaneous. The Beast attacks with 
two claws and a bite. It can only be hit by magic weapons. 
If the Beast is killed, it will change back to the form of Thgophile. 
The citizens of P&igon, while secretly believing that poor Theo- 
phile was indeed cursed into becoming the Beast, will publicly deny 
it. They will ask the party to leave Pe‘rigon and not come backJhe 
party may take the ring with them. 
61. POTION OF TIME TRAVEL. 
Several individuals in Averoigne own potions of time travel. Two 
of them, Jehan Mauvaissoir and Moriamis, might be encountered 
by chance. If so, the DM should give the party a fair chance of 
obtaining a potion of time travel. Moriamis, in particular, will be 
willing to help the party as long as the risk to herself is minimal. 
If the party does not obtain a potion of time travel as a result of a 
chance encounter, they will have to journey to Ximes to see 
Azedarc. (The Les Hiboux clue on the scroll is a false clue, and if 
they attempt to follow it they will wander through the swamp 
confronting the creatures that live there before discovering that no 
one knows about a potion of time travel). 
Azedarc, the Bishop of Ximes, is an evil magician (AC 9; M14; hp 
40; #AT 1; D 1-4 + spells; MV 120’ (40); Save M14; ML 9; AL C), a 
fact he will go to any length to keep secret. His spells are 
First level: darkness, read languages, read magic, 
Second level: detect evil, ESP, phantasmal force, 
Third level: clairvoyance, dispel magic, lightning bolt, 
Fourth level: confusion, polymorph others, remove 
Fifth level: conjure elemental, feeblemind, magic jar 
Sixth level: control weather, geas, projected image 
ventriloquism 
wizard lock 
protection from evil, 10 r 
curse, wizard eye 
The DM should make sure the party realizes that magic is consi- 
dered evil in Averoigne, before they meet Azedarc. 
The DM should use discretion when judging the confrontation 
between the party and Azedarc. If the party accuses Azedarc of 
being a magician in front of other witnesses, Azedarc will have to 
defend his position in the community. He is likely to accuse the 
party itself of witchcraft and order the city guard to arrest them. 
On the other hand, if they secretly confront Azedarc, he would 
probably be willing to trade a potion of time travel for another 
magic item or items of at least equal value. 
Two factors are particularly important in the confrontation be- 
tween Azedarc and the party: 
1) The confrontation should be secret; 
2) The party should take some sort of precaution against 
If the party does both of the above, the DM should allow them to 
trade for a potion of time travel. 
treachery on Azedarc’s part. 
The DM should note that this encounter, like many other city 
encounters, calls for intelligent play rather than mindless fighting. 
City streets are not dungeon corridors and if the party breaks the 
law they will have to pay the consequences. 
PART 8: THE TOMB OF STEPHEN AMBER 
The party should now possess the Enchanted Sword of Sylaire, 
the Viper-Circled Mirror, the Ring of Eibon and a potion of 
time travel. If they do not, they can go no further and will be 
trapped in Averoigne. The DM should give the party every con- 
ceivable chance to obtain the four magic items. Once these items 
are in their possession the characters may summon the Tomb of 
Stephen Amber. 
When the Ring of Eibon is touched to the viper’s tail on the mirror 
frame, the serpent wil uncoil enough for the ring to slide over the 
tail. The ring will then slowly move up the viper’s body until it 
circles the head like a collar. The viper’s tail will once again be 
gripped in the viper’s mouth. 
When the Enchanted Sword of Sylaire is anointed with the 
potion of time travel, the blade will glow bright gold. As soon as 
the blade comes into contact with the mirror, the party will hear a 
high pitched humming. The mirror, ring and sword will then shatter 
22 

===== PAGE 28 =====
into thousands of shards. 
The amber haze will once more surround and heal the party. The 
world of Averoigne will fade out and the party will find itself on a 
seemingly endless plain. In front of them is a massive, square, 50’ 
tall tomb made of amber colored marble. Carved over the entrance 
is the name “Stephen Amber.” 
On the door is painted the Amber family crest; A black shield with a 
gold phoenix (Sable, a phoenix Or). An amber crown is painted 
above the crest. 
62. FIRST GUARDIAN. 
Lying in the middle of this room, atop a pile of silver coins and 
gems, is a huge winged lizard. The gigantic lizard is covered with 
metallic blue scales. It appears to be asleep. 
The sleeping blue dragon (AC 0; HD 9**; hp 41; #AT3; D 2-7/2-7/3- 
30 + breath; MV (30’) fly (80’); Save F9; ML 9; AL N) is the first 
guardian of Stephen’s tomb. Its lightning breath strikes in the 
shape of a line loo’ long by 5’ wide. The dragon does not talk or use 
spells. If the dragon wakes, it will fight to prevent the party opening 
the west or east doors. The dragon’s treasure is 86,000 sp and 59 
gems worth a total of 5,900 gp. 
63. FIRE. 
Flames leap and crackle off the walls and ceiling of this long 
corridor. It looks like it is possible to walk down the corridor 
without getting burned as long as one stays in the center of the 
hallway where the heat is least. 
A flame salamander (AC 2; HD 8*; hp 36; #AT 3; D 1-4/1-4/1-8 + 
special; MV (40); Save F8; ML 8; AL N) waits to attack the party 
around the last corner of the room. Everyone coming within 20’ of 
the flame salamander will automatically take 1-8 points of fire 
damage per round. Everyone coming within 20’ of a wall or ceiling 
also will automatically take 1-8 points of fire damage per round. 
The ceiling is 50 high. 
64. AIR. 
You open the door and look down to find that the ground is 
thousands of feet below you. A solid-looking cloud trail, 10 
wide, forms a path down the center of the hallway. 
The cloud-path will easily support the weight of the party although 
they will fall if they step off the path. The walls of this hallway, 
though invisible, continue all the way to the ground as invisible 
force fields so that even flying individuals cannot leave this hallway 
except through one of the doors. Around the far corner of the hall a 
wyvern (AC 3; HD 7*; hp 32; #AT 2; D 2-16/1-6 + poison; MV (30’) 
fly (80); Save F4; ML 9; AL C) waits to attack the party. There is a 
99% chance that any individual falling to the ground will be killed by 
the fall (roll % dice, a roll of 00 indicates survival with 1-4 hit points 
left). 
65. SECOND GUARDIAN. 
A 14‘ tall humanoid with gray rock-like skin stands in front of the 
inner door. The humanoid holds a large stalactite as a club. A 
large treasure chest sits behind him. 
The humanoid guardian is a stone giant (AC 4; HD 9; hp48; #AT 1; 
D 3-18; MV (40); Save F9; ML 9; AL N). It will fight to prevent the 
party from opening the inner door. The chest is locked but not 
trapped. It contains 5,000 gp, a neutral sword +1, +2 vs. spell 
users (8 intelligence, 8 ego, detects invisible and detects traps), 
a cursed scroll (turns victim into a living fly trapped in a piece of 
amber), a potion of clairaudience and a potion of invisibility. 
66. THIRD GUARDIAN. 
A creature with the face of a man, the body of a lion, the wings of 
a giant bat and a tail ridged with spikes guards the room. 
The third guardian is a manticore (AC 4; HD 6+1; hp 28 #AT 3 or 
spikes; D 1-4/1-4/2-8/ 6 x 1-6; MV (40) fly (60); Save F6; ML9; AL 
C). It will fight to keep the party from opening the east or west 
door. Inside the room, hidden by an invisibility spell, are 3,000 gp. 
67. EARTH. 
I The floor of this room is sunken and filled with mud. I 
The mud-filled floor is 10’ deep. Hidden beneath the surface of the 
mud is a Mud Golem (AC 9; HD 8*; hp 36; #AT 1; D 2-12 + 
smothering; MV (30); Save F8; ML 12; AL N). The mud golem can 
be hit only with magical weapons. The mud golem will rise to the 
surface of the mud to attack when the party passes. Characters 
fighting in the mud will do so at -2 to hit. 
68. WATER. 
IS long room has a sunken floor filled with water to the 
edge of the door. 
The water is 40’ deep and salty. A great white shark (AC 4; HD 8; 
hp 36; #AT 1; D 2-20; MV (60’); Save F4; ML 7; AL N) lies in wait for 
the party. It will attack anyone who tries to move past it in the 
water. 
69. FOURTH GUARDIAN. 
A large creature with a dragon-like body and five snake-like 
heads guards this room. I - I 
The final guardian is a five-headed hydra (AC 5; HD 5; hp 23; #AT 
5; D 1-10 each; MV (40); Save F5; ML 9; AL N). It will fight to 
prevent the party opening the door to room 70, Stephen’s Crypt. 
70. STEPHEN’S CRYPT. 
In the center of this room is an ornate mahogany casket. The 
casket rests on a raised dais. A silver candelabra and an iron 
brazier stand at the head and feet of the casket. The candel- 
abra holds burning amber candles, and perfumed smoke rises 
from the brazier. A large tapestry covers all the wall space, 
Carved into the inside lid of the casket are the words “Burn the 
tapestry to break my curse”. A skeleton wearing a crown of gold 
lies inside the casket. Nothing will happen until the tapestry is 
burned. 
If the party burns the tapestry, a man dressed in rich velvet robes 
and wearing a golden crown and other fine jewelry will suddenly 
appear, stepping out of the smoke and ashes. He stretches and 
says, “Thanks, I’ve been trapped in there for ages.” The tomb 
disappears and the party is back outside Castle Amber. The gray 
23 

===== PAGE 29 =====
mist has disappeared and the party can see the river they had been 
following at the start. They are back in their world. The castle was 
frozen in time as a result of Stephen’s curse. Now that the curse is 
broken, the lost ages catch up with the castle in minutes. The walls 
grow pitted and crumble into ruins. Tapestries molder into dust. 
The inhabitants of Castle Amber age rapidly and die, ending as 
mummified skeletons. The only things left intact in the ruins are the 
party members, the treasure they won and Stephen Amber. 
Stephen is a 25th level magic-user (AC 9; M25’ hp 79; #AT 1 + 
Spells; D 1-4; MV (40’); Save M25; ML 11; AL N). Details for higher 
levels are given in the D&D@ Companion Set, but the details are 
not necessary for the DM to run Stephen Amber as an NPC. For 
purposes of simplicity, the DM should allow Stephen to cast any 
magic-user spell in the D&D Expert rulebook. Stephen is grateful 
for his release and will not fight the party unless he is attacked (in 
which case he will teleport away). If the party does not attack 
Stephen, he will reward each of his rescuers with a piece of antique 
jewelry worth 3,000-18,000 gp each and a magic item rolled at 
random appropriate to the individual’s class. The magic item will 
not be cursed; if a cursed item is rolled continue rolling until an 
appropriate item is rolled. If the DM feels the item rolled is too 
powerful, he or she may select another. 
Stephen also has a ring of 4 wishes. He will use the ring to bring 
back to life up to four characters (even if the character was 
disintegrated, jeliified, etc.). If more than four characters have died 
during the course of the adventure, he will pick four at random to 
bring back to life. Characters returned to life only receive exper- 
ience pointsfor the adventure up until the point where they died. If 
no characters have died, Stephen will not use the ring nor reveal its 
power. 
Once Stephen has rewarded the players, he will thank them again, 
speak some arcane words and, with grand gestures, disappear in a 
billow of smoke. 
PART 9: NEW MONSTERS 
Amber Lotus Flowers 
Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: Save As: Normal Man 
Movement: 0 Morale: 12 
Attacks: 1 Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: special Alignment: Neutral 
No. Appearing: 0 (3-18) 
Amber lotus flowers look like golden water lilies the size of sun- 
flowers. When a creature approaches within 10 the blossoms open 
and spray a 40 x 40’ cloud of pollen. Any individual within the 
affected area must save vs. Spells or fall asleep for 4-16 turns. The 
flowers can spray a fresh burst of pollen every 3- 12 rounds. Amber 
lotus flowers are often found acting in concert with other deadly 
plants such as vampire roses and killer trees. 
Amoeba, Giant 
Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: 10-15 Save As: Fighter 7 
Movement: 30 (10) Mor a I e : 10 
Attacks: 1 Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: 2-12 Alignment: Neutral 
Giant amoeba are 30’ wide single celled animals. Except for the 1’ 
wide gray nucleus, an amoeba is translucent. If the nucleus is 
hidden or disguised, the amoeba will be practically invisible and 
able to attack with surprise. Giant amoeba attack by first envelop- 
ing victims, then secreting an acid to digest them. 
No. Appearing: 1 
Aranea 
Armor Class: 7 No. Appearing 1-3 (1-6) 
Hit Dice: 3** Save As: Magic-user 3 
Move: 60 (20) Mor a 1 e : 7 
Treasure Type: D 
Attacks: 1 bite Alignment: Chaotic 
Damage: 1-6 + poison 
Web 120 (40) 
Aranea are an intelligent giant spider race. They are as large as a 
small pony, and are greenish-brown in color. An aranea can be 
distinguished from other giant spiders by the massive odd-shaped 
lump on its back that houses its large brain. Aranea are web- 
spinners, and their bite is poisonous. 
The front limbs of an aranea are divided into flexible digits. The 
aranea uses these to grasp prey and manipulate simple tools. In 
addition, the aranea can cast spells as a 3rd level magic-user and 
they spend most of their time in magic research. 
For use of aranea in wilderness adventures see Dungeon Module 
X1: The Isle of Dread. 
Brain Collector 
Armor Class: 2 
Hit Dice: 10* Save As: Fighter 10 
Move: . 180(60) Morale: 10 
Attacks: 1 bite + spells Treasure Type: C 
Damage: 1-10 + spells Alignment: Chaotic 
No. Appearing: 1 (1) 
Brain collectors, or Neh-Thalggu in their own language, are a race 
of other-dimensional creatures who are only occasionally able to 
cross the barriers separating their universe from this one. Only 
near sources of great magical energy, such as Castle Amber, 
where the fabric of time and space is twisted, can they find small 
gateways here. They do not think like any creature known, but 
seem for some purpose to be driven to collect brains. 
Brain collectors are truly hideous, with bloated, yellow-orange, 
oily, amorphous bodies from which sprout dozens of short wri- 
thing tentacles. They move about on six crab-like legs. Four large, 
yellow, bulging eyes and a tooth-filled maw are set in its bulbous 
head. They attack by biting with their mouth or casting spells. 
These creatures slay characters and then carefully cut away the 
top of the head with surgical tools to expose the brain. They 
remove the brain and swallow it. The brain then moves into one of 
several pockets within the brain collector’s own head where the 
brain may be utilized. Each brain forms a distinctive lump in the 
head of the monster. For each brain the creature collects it gains 
the ability to use one magic-user spell of 1st to 3rd level once per 
day. The DM should determine each new spell randomly. Once a 
brain collector reaches this universe, it begins to work hard to 
acquire as many brains in as short a time as possible. A brain 
collector can collect up to a maximum of 12 brains. 
24 

===== PAGE 30 =====
Death Demon 
Armor Class: 4 
Hit Dice: 7** Save As: Fighter 7 
Move: 90' (30') Mor a 1 e : 10 
Fly 180' (60') 
Attacks: 3 Alignment: Chaotic 
Damage: 1-4/1-4/2-8 + 
No. Appearing: 1-4 
Treasure Type: E 
special 
Death demons, also known as Ostegos, appear as 10' tall gaunt, 
hairless humanoids with gray scaly skin. Ivory fangs protrude from 
their mouths and their fingers are tipped with adamantine talons. 
Their eyes glow like smoldering coals and two huge bat-like wings 
grow out of their back. 
Death demons attack with their claws and fangs. Any creature 
struck by its claw must save vs. Paralysis or be paralyzed for 2-8 
turns. Any creature bitten by a death demon must save vs. Poison 
at -2 or die. 
Death demons also have infravision, 60 range, and the abilities to 
teleport with no error and cause darkness, 10 radius. 
Golem, Mud 
Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: 8* Save As: Fighter 8 
Move: 90' (30') Morale: 12 
Attacks: 1 hug Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: 2-12 + Alignment: Neutral 
No. Appearing: 1 (1) 
smothering 
A mud golem is a humanoid monster magically created from mud. 
It can swim or walk on the surface of mud and quicksand without 
sinking. It can remain submerged in mud or quicksand indefinitely, 
and rise to the surface when it wishes. Mud golems hug their 
victims with both arms, trying to smother the victim in its body. If a 
mud golem hits, it will automatically cause 2-12 points of smother- 
ing damage each round thereafter. Like other golems, mud golems 
can be hit only by magical weapons. They are immune to sleep, 
charm and hold spells, as well as all forms of gases. 
Grab Grass 
Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: 1 per 5' square Save As: Normal Man 
Movement: 0 Morale: 12 
Attacks: 1 Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: special Alignment: Neutral 
Grab grass looks like ordinary tall grass (3-5' tall). Grab grass is 
animated and will attempt to hold any individual that moves into or 
through it. There is a 5% chance each round that anyone with a 
strength of 12 or less can break free of the grab grass. For every 
point of strength greater than 12 the chance increases by 5% (an 
individual with 16 strength, for example, would have a 25% chance 
each round to break free). The grab grass patch has one hit die for 
every 5' square area (thus 5' square are destroyed for every 8 hit 
points of damage done to the grab grass). 
No. Appearing: not applicable 
Gremlin 
Armor Class: 7 
Hit Dice: 1** Save As: Elf 1 
Move: 120' (40') Morale: 12 
Attacks: special Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: special Alignment: Chaotic 
Gremlins are 3' tall humanoids with pasty gray-green skin, large 
saucer-shaped eyes and pointed ears. They are whimsical and 
have an evil sense of humor. Gremlins can radiate a chaotic aura 
with a20' radius. Inside the area of effect, "If anything can go wrong 
in a given situation, it probably will." Characters must successfully 
save vs. Spells each round to avoid the effect of the gremlins. 
Gremlins have no attack other than their chaotic aura. However, 
any creature which attacks a gremlin and misses must roll a second 
attack against himself or herself. Any character casting a spell 
within the chaotic aura must roll a save vs. Spells. If successful, the 
spell affects the gremlins; if unsuccessful, the spell affects the 
caster. 
No. Appearing: 1-6 (1-6) 
Gremlin magic usually affects mechanical devices before non- 
mechanical devices. A crossbow might break in half, belt buckles 
might pop-open, ax-heads might fall off their shaft, etc. The exact 
effects of gremlin magic depend on the situation and the DMs 
imagination. In general, the magic is not deadly but is playfully 
malignant. 
Killer Trees 
Armor Class: 5 
Hit Dice: 6 Save As: Fighter 3 
Movement: 0 Morale: 12 
Attacks: 4 limbs/ Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: 0 each/ 3-18 
No. Appearing: 0 (2-12) 
1 mouth Alignment: Neutral 
Killer trees look.like large trees. They can resemble any tree 
species. Killer trees are part animal, part vegetable. They need 
both sunlight and meat to survive. Some of the limbs of the killer 
trees are actually tentacles. These tentacles can reach out 20' and 
grab victims. The victims are then dragged to the mouth of the 
killer tree which is disguised as a large tree-bole. Each limb has 1 
HD and a successful attack on a limb doing 5 or more points of 
damage will sever it. One attack can sever only one limb. If the 
victim does not cut his or her way free, the victim will be dragged to 
the tree mouth on the round after the limb hit successfully, and 
take an automatic 3-18 points of damage per round thereafter. 
Lupin 
Armor Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 2 Save As: Fighter 2 
Movement: 120' (40') Morale: 8 
Attacks: 1 weapon Treasure Type: C 
Damage: 1-8 Alignment: Lawful 
No. Appearing: 2-12 (5-40) 
25 

===== PAGE 31 =====
Lupins are dog-like humanoids. They have fur-covered human-like 
bodies with canine heads.They hate werewolves and will attack 
them on sight (knowing a werewolf even in its human form). Lupins 
have a tribal society with hereditary rulers. Lupins are often allied 
with humans. In battle, lupins sometimes ride trained dire wolves, 
attacking with a mounted lance charge. 
Magen 
Hypnos 
Armor Class: 7 
Hit Dice: 2* 
Move: 120 (40) 
Attacks: 1 
Damage: Charm 
No. Appearing: l(0) 
Save As: Magic- 
User 2 
Morale: 12 
Treasure Type: U 
Alignment: Neutral 
Demos Caldron 
7orarmor 5 
type 
3 +2 4* 
120 (40) 120’ (40) 
1 weapon 1 special 
1-8 or by 1-10 
weapon 
Fighter 4 Fighter 4 
2-12 (0) 1-4 (0) 
12 12 
C v 
Neutral Neutral 
Galvan 
3 
5* 
120 (40) 
1 or light- 
ning bolt 
by weapon 
or 3-18 
Fighter 5 
1-3 (0) 
12 
C 
Neutral 
Magen (“Gens Magica” or “magical people”) are beings created 
with complex conjurations and strict alchemical formulae by high 
level magic-users. They will follow the commands of their creator 
to the death. Though magen resemble perfectly formed humans, 
they are not actually living beings. They exist purely through 
magic, and do not need air, water, food or sleep. They do not age. 
When killed, their physical bodies dissolve in a burst of flame and 
smoke. There are four basic types of magen given here, though the 
DM may wish to design more. There are no outwardly visible 
differences in the four types until they reveal their special powers. 
Hypnos. Hypnos magen are telepathic and have been given a 
permanent charm person spell by their creator. They can 
attempt to charm one victim per round. If the victim does not 
save vs. Spells he or she will obey the hypnos magen’s telepa- 
thic commands. The victim will not obey suicidal commands. 
Once an individual has successfully saved he or she is immune 
to the charm power of that particular magen. 
Demos. Demos magen have no special powers and fight with 
weapons. If they wear armor, they will have the armor class of 
that armor; otherwise, their armor class is 7. 
Caldron. Caldron magen have the ability to stretch their arms 
and legs up to 20. They attempt to wrap their limbs around a 
victim and, if successful, secrete an acid which does 1-10 points 
of damage. The victim will continue to take damage each round 
unless freed. 
Galvan. Galvan magen have the ability to store static electri- 
city which they discharge as lightning bolts doing 3-18 points of 
damage. The lightning bolt forms a line 60 long by 5’ wide. A 
successful save vs. Dragon Breath reduces damage by half. 
Galvan magen can discharge up to three lightning bolts per day. 
They will also use weapons. 
The procedure for creating a magen varies according to the type 
desired, as the special properties of some magen require extra 
work on the part of the magic-user. In general, a large expenditure 
of time and money (for the costly and/or magical ingredients) is 
necessary to create even one or two magen. Also many high-level 
spells, scrolls and wishes must be used during the preparations. 
Even so, there is always a good chance that the incantations will 
fail. - 
Pagan 
Armor Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 1 Save As: Fighter 1 
Movement: 120 (40) Morale: 8 
Attacks: 1 weapon Treasure Type: A 
Damage: 1-6 Alignment: Neutral 
No. Appearing: 0 (3-30) 
Pagans worship the gods and goddesses of nature. They follow the 
teachings of certain druids, clerics of nature gods. Pagans practice 
seasonal sacrifices which they believe help maintain the cycles of 
the year. They sometimes practice human sacrifice. Characters 
captured in battles with pagans probably will be used as human 
sacrifices. Pagans generally form tribal societies. 
Pagans will be encountered in Averoigne on the edge of the wilder- 
ness. They hold their ceremonies in isolated forest glades and 
grottos. Pagans will not be encountered in cities, towns, or villages. 
Phantoms* 
Armor Class: 9 
Hit Dice: 6* Save As: Fighter 6 
Move: 120 (40) Morale: 6 
Fly 240 (80) Treasure Type: C 
Attack: 1 Alignment: Chaotic 
Damage: 1-4 + special 
No. Appearing: 1-3 (1-4) 
Phantoms are magical beings. They appear to be solid, but their 
bodies are made of mist which they can form into any shape which 
is human-size or smaller. They use this ability to lure creatures to 
their doom by leading them into dangerous areas. They can appear 
as a fellow adventurer, a limping dog, or whatever the DM can 
imagine. Phantoms can fly and, because they are made of mist, 
they can walk on water or quicksand as if it were solid ground and 
call for aid. Any character trying to aid the warrior will discover the 
seemingly solid ground is actually quicksand. 
Magical attacks upon a phantom will do full damage, while other 
attacks will do only half damage. Phantoms can turn invisible at 
will, and once per day can cast the following spells: confusion, 
hallucinatory terrain and phantasmal force. These creatures 
are very cowardly and if their deception is discovered they will turn 
invisible and attempt to flee. If forced to fight they will attack 
causing 1-4 points of damage with each blow. 
Rakasta 
Armor Class: 6 
Hit Dice: 2 + 1 sabre-tooths) 
Move: 90 (30) Save As: Fighter 2 
Attacks: 2 claws/lbite Morale: 9 
Damage: 1-4 each Treasure Type: M (special) 
No. Appearing: 0 (3-30 +1-8 
Alignment: Neutral 
The rakasta are a race of nomadic, cat-like humanoids. They walk 
upright, much like humans, but are covered with soft, tawny fur 
and have feline heads. The rakasta fight with special metal “war 
claws” fitted over their natural claws (without these special claws, 
the rakasta claw attacks do only 1-2 points each). The rakasta can 
use normal weapons such as swords, but generally disdain them, pre- 
ferring instead to use their “natural” weapons, the war claws. 
For information on using rakasta in wilderness adventures see 
Dungeon Module X 1: The Isle of Dread. 
26 

===== PAGE 32 =====
Slime Worm 
Armor Class: 5 No. Appearing: 1 
Hit Dice: 10 Save As: Fighter 5 
Movement: 60 (20) Morale: 9 
Attacks: 1 bite Treasure Type: D 
Damage: 2-12 Alignment: Neutral 
Slime worms are giant-sized worms that secrete a sticky substance 
that coats their backs. They roll in treasure hordes so that their 
backs are covered with coins, jewels, weapons, armor, etc. The 
slime does not affect attacks. There is a chance (a roll of 1-5 on ld6) 
that a slime worm will be indistinguishable from a large pile of 
treasure. Slime worms attack with surprise whenever possible. 
They swallow their prey whole on an unmodified to hit roll of 18 or 
more. Swallowed prey will take 2-12 points of damage per round 
until dead or free (similar to a purple worm). 
Sun Brother 
Armor Class: 0 
Hit Dice: lo*- 14* Save As: Fighter 10-14 
Move: 120 (40) Morale: 9 (12) 
Attacks: 1 weapon Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: 1-8 (+3) Alignment: Lawful 
Sun brothers are members of the Brotherhood of the Sun, mortal 
enemies of efreet. Sun brothers belong to a race of 7’ tall huma- 
noids with crimson skin and bright yellow hair called Sollux, related 
No. Appearing: 1 (1) 
Pronunciation Guide 
A French pronunciation guide is given here for DMs who would 
like to use the foreign pronunciations to add an air of mystery to 
the module. Each word is broken down into syllables of sound- 
alike letter combinations. Vowels with a “-” over them are long 
vowels, while those with no markings are pronounced short. 
Thus the word “pronunciation” would be pronounced 
“pro.nun.sG.a.shun”. 
In some cases English translations for the French word are 
given. Those translations given in quotations are English equi- 
valents, but should not be translated because they are proper 
names. 
And&-David - (An.dr^a-Da.vGd), Andrew David 
Averoigne - (Av.ur.wan.ye) 
Le Batteleur - (Ba.tel.yeur), The Juggler 
Bonne Jouissance - (Bun Jeu.&sawns) 
Catherine - (Kot.rEn), Catherine 
Charles - (Shad), Charles 
Le Chdteau - (Sbaw.t6), castle or manor 
Le Chevalier des Epees - shau.val.ya Da.zii.pa), The Knight 
Claude - (Klod), Claude 
Couer de Lion - (Kur de le.yon), Lion-Hearted 
D’Amberville - (Dam.bur.vel), Amber 
$.I, de la, d’,-or des - (deu, de la, d or da), of 
Etienne - (A.tG.yen), Stephen 
Fausseflammes - (Fos.flam) 
La Force - (La Fors), Strength 
La Frenaie - (Fru.na), “Grove of Ash” 
Gaspard du Nord - (Gas.par deu Nor), “Gaspard of the North” 
Gaston - (Gas.tun), Gaston 
Gerard de I’Automne - (Ja.rar de Lo.tum), “Gerard of Autumn” 
Guillaume - (Ge.yom), William 
of Swords 
to efreet but lawful in nature. The Brotherhood of the Sun is 
distinguished by wearing red-gold armor and carrying blazing sun 
shields (treat as a light spell). All Sollux are immune to dispel 
illusions and to detect invisible. They are unaffected by normal 
fire and magical fire attacks suffer -1 to hit and damage. 
The sun brothers vary in hit dice from 10 to 14. They have a morale 
of 9 normally and a morale of 12 when fighting efreeti. 
Vampire Roses 
Armor Class: 7 No. Appearing: 1-8 
Hit Dice: 4 Save As: Fighter 2 
Movement: 30’ (10) Mor a 1 e : 12 
Attacks: 1 thorn + Treasure Type: Nil 
Damage: 1-8 
blood drain Alignment: Chaotic 
Vampire roses look like normal white rose bushes. They can, 
however, uproot themselves to move about slowly. Each 4 HD 
worth of vampire roses represents a single rose bush. The thorny 
stalks of vampire roses can whip around a victim, inflicting 1-8 
points of damage. The thorns are hollow. Once a thorn stalk has 
stuck and wrapped around a victim, the vampire rose will drain 1-8 
points of blood per round automatically. The vampire rose also 
injects a hypnotic anesthetic into the victim’s bloodstream; the 
victim must save vs. Spells or lose all willpower, allowing the 
vampire rose to continue sucking blood until the victim dies. After 
a vampire rose has completely drained a victim, the roses will be 
colored blood red instead of white. 
Henri - (Awn.rg), Henry 
Les Hiboux, (E.bou), “Owls” 
Isabelle - (E.za.bel), Isabel 
Isidore --(E.ze.dor), Isidora 
Isoile - (E.zwal) 
Janette - (Jaw.net), Janet 
Jean-Louis - (Jawn LkG), John Louis 
le, la, 1’ or les - (le, la, 1’ or la), the 
Luc le Chaudronnier - (LGk le Sho.drawn,yZ), “Luke the 
Magdalene - (Mog.da.len), Madeline 
Malachie du Marais - (Mal.a.kTdeu Maw.6) “Malachi of the 
Malinbois - (Mal.in.bwa), “Evil Woods” 
Marie-H8Gne - (Ma.rE hen), Mary Helen 
Le MZt - (Ma), The Fool 
La Mort - (Mor), Death 
Mhe Camille - (Mer Ka.mZ.ye), Madam Camilla 
Nathaire - (Na.tair) 
perigon - (Pair2.gon) 
Petit-Singe - (Pe.tB Sanj), Little Ape 
Prince - (Prans), Prince 
La Reine des Coupes - (Ren d& Keu.pZ), Queen of Cups 
Richard - (RG.shar), Richard 
Le Roi des Batons - (Rwa dZ Ba.ton), King of Wands 
La Roue de la Fortune - (Reu de la For.teun), The Wheel of 
Sainte Z6nobie - (Sant ZSn.ii.bZ), Saint Zenobia 
Simon - (Skmon), Simon 
Sylaire - (Sdair) 
Theophile - (TZ.CfGl), Theophilus 
La Tombe - (Tbmb), Tomb 
Touraine - (Tou.ren) 
Le Valet des Deniers - (Va.15 d^a Den.yS), The Page of Coins 
Vyones - (VCy6n) 
Ximes - (Z&n) 
Ylourgne - (E.lurn.ye) 
Cauldron” 
Swamp” 
Fortune 
27 

===== PAGE 33 =====
BIBLIOGRAPHY CREDITS 
A bibliography of the Averoigne stories is included here for anyone 
who wants to read the original material or for DMs seeking ideas 
for further adventures in Averoigne. All the stories and books are 
by Clark Ashton Smith. The books are published in hardback in 
the United States by Arkham House Publishers, Inc., and in pa- 
perback in the United Kingdom by Panther Books, Ltd. 
“The Enchantress of Sylaire” in The Abominations of 
“The Colossus of Ylourgne,” “The Disinterment of Venus” 
Yondo. 
and “The Satyr” in Genius Loci. 
Lost Worlds. 
“The Beast of Averoigne” and “The Holiness of Azedarc” in 
“The Mandrakes” in Other Dimensions. 
“The End of the Story” and “A Rendezvous in Averoigne” 
“The Maker of Gargoyles” and “Mother of Toads” in Tales 
in Out of Space & Time. 
of Science and Sorcery. 
Designer: Tom Moldvay 
Development: Dave Cook, Allen Hammack, Kevin Hendryx, 
Harold Johnson, Tom Moldvay, Jon Pickens 
Editors: Harold Johnson, Edward Sollers, Steve Winter 
Art: Jim Holloway, Harry Quinn, Jim Roslof, Stephen D. Sullivan, 
Playtesters: Tom Hanlon, Steve Kaszar, Rick Mansfield, 
Erol Otus 
Gordon Schick, Lawrence Schick, Jonathan Smuck, 
Ralph Wagner, Bill Wilkerson 
Special Thanks to: Clark Ashton Smith and CASiana Literary 
Enterprises, Inc., for use of the Averoigne stories as 
inspirational material. 
To Those Who Would Be Free: 
The secret that will break the curse surrounding Castle Amber and lift the gray 
mist is engraved on the inside lid of Stephen Amber’s casket. To snmmon Prince 
Stephen’s tomb from beyond space and time, four magical items are needed. The 
four items, The Enchanted Sword of Sylaire, The Viper Circled Mirror, The Rmg 
of Eibon, and a potion of time and travel, can all be found in Averoigne, our old 
homeland. Touch ring to viper’s tail. Anoint the sword with the potion. Shatter 
the mirror with the sword, and Prince Stephen’s tomb will appear. 
Search first for the Gate of the Silver Keys. 
Ay Cai.re- 7Le €ncLanted Awo.rd-+Lo.ra? JQaL‘acLie? 
Wyone5- 715, Wipm Ci.rcLd JQi.r.ro.r-ga+a.rd du dVo.rd 
G%.ricjon- 7Le &ins of €iGon-Luc L‘e CLaud7onnie.r 
dfiGoux? >ime5?-potion o time t.raveC-&zeda.rac? 
$Lm? 
JQo.riarnii? 
f 
28 

===== PAGE 34 =====


===== PAGE 35 =====
I Choir Loft 
,' 
I 
@ door 
doubledoor 
secret door 
boxing ring 
fireplace 
stairs 
7 TJ., light woods 
thorn barrier U 
1 square = 10 feet 
East Wing 

===== PAGE 36 =====
