System Reference Document 5.2.1
119
see and whenever a creature you can see enters 
the Emanation or ends its turn there, you can force 
that creature to make a Wisdom saving throw. The 
creature takes 5d8 Force damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one. A creature 
makes this save only once per turn.
 In addition, you can take the Disengage action as a 
Bonus Action for the spell’s duration.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4.
Contact Other Plane
Level 5 Divination (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a long-
dead sage, or some other knowledgeable entity 
from another plane. Contacting this otherworldly 
intelligence can break your mind. When you cast 
this spell, make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw. 
On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to 
five questions. You must ask your questions before 
the spell ends. The GM answers each question with 
one word, such as “yes,” “no,” “maybe,” “never,” “ir -
relevant,” or “unclear” (if the entity doesn’t know 
the answer to the question). If a one-word answer 
would be misleading, the GM might instead offer a 
short phrase as an answer.
 On a failed save, you take 6d6 Psychic damage and 
have the Incapacitated condition until you finish a 
Long Rest. A Greater Restoration  spell cast on you 
ends this effect.
Contagion
Level 5 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Component: V, S
Duration: 7 days
Your touch inflicts a magical contagion. The target 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or 
take 11d8 Necrotic damage and have the Poisoned 
condition. Also, choose one ability when you cast 
the spell. While Poisoned, the target has Disadvan -
tage on saving throws made with the chosen ability.
 The target must repeat the saving throw at the 
end of each of its turns until it gets three successes 
or failures. If the target succeeds on three of these 
saves, the spell ends on the target. If the target fails 
three of the saves, the spell lasts for 7 days on it.
 Whenever the Poisoned target receives an effect 
that would end the Poisoned condition, the target 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or the 
Poisoned condition doesn’t end on it.
Contingency
Level 6 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted statuette of 
yourself worth 1,500+ GP)
Duration: 10 days
Choose a spell of level 5 or lower that you can cast, 
that has a casting time of an action, and that can 
target you. You cast that spell—called the contin -
gent spell—as part of casting Contingency , expend-
ing spell slots for both, but the contingent spell 
doesn’t come into effect. Instead, it takes effect 
when a certain trigger occurs. You describe that 
trigger when you cast the two spells. For example, 
a Contingency cast with Water Breathing  might stip -
ulate that Water Breathing comes into effect when 
you are engulfed in water or a similar liquid.
 The contingent spell takes effect immediately af -
ter the trigger occurs for the first time, whether or 
not you want it to, and then Contingency  ends.
 The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even 
if it can normally target others. You can use only 
one Contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell 
again, the effect of another Contingency  spell on you 
ends. Also, Contingency  ends on you if its material 
component is ever not on your person.
Continual Flame
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 50+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
A flame springs from an object that you touch. The 
effect casts Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim 
Light for an additional 20 feet. It looks like a regular 
flame, but it creates no heat and consumes no fuel. 
The flame can be covered or hidden but not smoth -
ered or quenched.
Control Water
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mixture of water and dust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, you control any water inside 
an area you choose that is a Cube up to 100 feet on 
a side, using one of the following effects. As a Magic 
action on your later turns, you can repeat the same 
effect or choose a different one.
 Flood. You cause the water level of all standing 
water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If you 