System Reference Document 5.2.1
116
You touch a creature or at least 1 cubic inch of its 
flesh. An inert duplicate of that creature forms 
inside the vessel used in the spell’s casting and fin -
ishes growing after 120 days; you choose whether 
the finished clone is the same age as the creature or 
younger. The clone remains inert and endures indef -
initely while its vessel remains undisturbed.
 If the original creature dies after the clone fin -
ishes forming, the creature’s soul transfers to the 
clone if the soul is free and willing to return. The 
clone is physically identical to the original and has 
the same personality, memories, and abilities, but 
none of the original’s equipment. The creature’s 
original remains, if any, become inert and can’t be 
revived, since the creature’s soul is elsewhere.
Cloudkill
Level 5 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow-green 
fog centered on a point within range. The fog lasts 
for the duration or until strong wind (such as the 
one created by Gust of Wind ) disperses it, ending the 
spell. Its area is Heavily Obscured.
 Each creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution 
saving throw, taking 5d8 Poison damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. A 
creature must also make this save when the Sphere 
moves into its space and when it enters the Sphere 
or ends its turn there. A creature makes this save 
only once per turn.
 The Sphere moves 10 feet away from you at the 
start of each of your turns.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.
Color Spray
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of colorful sand)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a dazzling array of flashing, colorful 
light. Each creature in a 15-foot Cone originating 
from you must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or have the Blinded condition until the end of 
your next turn.
Command
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You speak a one-word command to a creature you 
can see within range. The target must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or follow the command on its 
next turn. Choose the command from these options:
Approach. The target moves toward you by the 
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it 
moves within 5 feet of you.
Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and 
then ends its turn.
Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from 
you by the fastest available means.
Grovel. The target has the Prone condition and then 
ends its turn.
Halt. On its turn, the target doesn’t move and takes 
no action or Bonus Action.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can affect 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Commune
Level 5 Divination (Cleric)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense)
Duration: 1 minute
You contact a deity or a divine proxy and ask up 
to three questions that can be answered with yes 
or no. You must ask your questions before the 
spell ends. You receive a correct answer for each 
question.
 Divine beings aren’t necessarily omniscient, so 
you might receive “unclear” as an answer if a ques -
tion pertains to information that lies beyond the de -
ity’s knowledge. In a case where a one-word answer 
could be misleading or contrary to the deity’s inter -
ests, the GM might offer a short phrase as an answer 
instead.
 If you cast the spell more than once before finish -
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent 
chance for each casting after the first that you get 
no answer.
Commune with Nature
Level 5 Divination (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You commune with nature spirits and gain knowl -
edge of the surrounding area. In the outdoors, the 
spell gives you knowledge of the area within 3 miles 
of you. In caves and other natural underground 
settings, the radius is limited to 300 feet. The spell 