System Reference Document 5.2.1
132
Fire Bolt
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or an object 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the 
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 Fire damage. 
A flammable object hit by this spell starts burning if 
it isn’t being worn or carried.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10 
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 
(4d10).
Fire Shield
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or a firefly)
Duration: 10 minutes
Wispy flames wreathe your body for the duration, 
shedding Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim 
Light for an additional 10 feet.
 The flames provide you with a warm shield or a 
chill shield, as you choose. The warm shield grants 
you Resistance to Cold damage, and the chill shield 
grants you Resistance to Fire damage.
 In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet 
of you hits you with a melee attack roll, the shield 
erupts with flame. The attacker takes 2d8 Fire dam -
age from a warm shield or 2d8 Cold damage from a 
chill shield.
Fire Storm
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A storm of fire appears within range. The area of 
the storm consists of up to ten 10-foot Cubes, which 
you arrange as you like. Each Cube must be contig -
uous with at least one other Cube. Each creature 
in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 
7d10 Fire damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
 Flammable objects in the area that aren’t being 
worn or carried start burning.
Flame Blade
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sumac leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade 
is similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts 
for the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disap -
pears, but you can evoke it again as a Bonus Action.
 As a Magic action, you can make a melee spell at -
tack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes 
Fire damage equal to 3d6 plus your spellcasting 
ability modifier.
 The flaming blade sheds Bright Light in a 10-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 10 feet.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.
Flame Strike
Level 5 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A vertical column of brilliant fire roars down from 
above. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-
high Cylinder centered on a point within range 
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d6 Fire 
damage and 5d6 Radiant damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Fire damage 
and the Radiant damage increase by 1d6 for each 
spell slot level above 5.
Flaming Sphere
Level 2 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of wax)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire in an un -
occupied space on the ground within range. It lasts 
for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn 
within 5 feet of the sphere makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 2d6 Fire damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one.
 As a Bonus Action, you can move the sphere up to 
30 feet, rolling it along the ground. If you move the 
sphere into a creature’s space, that creature makes 
the save against the sphere, and the sphere stops 
moving for the turn.
 When you move the sphere, you can direct it over 
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up 
to 10 feet wide. Flammable objects that aren’t be -
ing worn or carried start burning if touched by the 
sphere, and it sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot radius 
and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.