System Reference Document 5.2.1
244
Slippers of Spider Climbing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While you wear these light shoes, you can move 
up, down, and across vertical surfaces and along 
ceilings, while leaving your hands free. You have a 
Climb Speed equal to your Speed. However, the slip -
pers don’t allow you to move this way on a slippery 
surface, such as one covered by ice or oil.
Sovereign Glue
Wondrous Item, Legendary 
This viscous, milky-white substance can form a per -
manent adhesive bond between any two objects. It 
must be stored in a jar or flask that has been coated 
inside with Oil of Slipperiness . When found, a con-
tainer contains 1d6 + 1 ounces.
 One ounce of the glue can cover a 1-foot square 
surface. Applying an ounce of Sovereign Glue  takes 
a Utilize action, and the applied glue takes 1 minute 
to set. Once it has done so, the bond it creates can be 
broken only by the application of Universal Solvent  
or Oil of Etherealness, or with a Wish spell.
Spellguard Shield
Armor (Shield), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
While holding this Shield, you have Advantage on 
saving throws against spells and other magical 
effects, and spell attack rolls have Disadvantage 
against you.
Spell Scroll
Scroll, Rarity Varies 
A Spell Scroll bears the words of a single spell, writ -
ten in a mystical cipher. If the spell is on your spell 
list, you can read the scroll and cast its spell with -
out Material components. Otherwise, the scroll is 
unintelligible. Casting the spell by reading the scroll 
requires the spell’s normal casting time. Once the 
spell is cast, the scroll crumbles to dust. If the cast -
ing is interrupted, the scroll isn’t lost.
 If the spell is on your spell list but of a higher level 
than you can normally cast, you make an ability 
check using your spellcasting ability to determine 
whether you cast the spell. The DC equals 10 plus 
the spell’s level. On a failed check, the spell disap -
pears from the scroll with no other effect.
 The level of the spell on the scroll determines the 
spell’s saving throw DC and attack bonus, as well as 
the scroll’s rarity, as shown in the following table.
Spell Level Rarity Save DC Attack Bonus
Cantrip Common 13 +5
1 Common 13 +5
2 Uncommon 13 +5
3 Uncommon 15 +7
Spell Level Rarity Save DC Attack Bonus
4 Rare 15 +7
5 Rare 17 +9
6 Very Rare 17 +9
7 Very Rare 18 +10
8 Very Rare 18 +10
9 Legendary 19 +11
 Copying a Scroll into a Spellbook. A Wizard spell 
on a Spell Scroll can be copied into a spellbook. 
When a spell is copied in this way, the copier must 
succeed on an Intelligence (Arcana) check with a 
DC equal to 10 plus the spell’s level. On a successful 
check, the spell is copied. Whether the check suc -
ceeds or fails, the Spell Scroll  is destroyed.
Sphere of Annihilation
Wondrous Item, Legendary 
This 2-foot-diameter black sphere is a hole in the 
multiverse, hovering in space and stabilized by a 
magical field surrounding it.
 The sphere obliterates all matter it passes 
through and all matter that passes through it. Ar -
tifacts are the exception. Unless an Artifact is sus -
ceptible to damage from a Sphere of Annihilation, it 
passes through the sphere unscathed. Anything else 
that touches the sphere but isn’t wholly engulfed 
and obliterated by it takes 8d10 Force damage.
 Controlling the Sphere. A Sphere of Annihilation is 
stationary until someone takes control of it. If you 
are within 60 feet of a sphere, you can take a Magic 
action to make a DC 25 Intelligence (Arcana) check. 
On a successful check, you control the sphere until 
the start of your next turn, and if it was under an -
other creature’s control, that creature loses control 
of the sphere. On a failed check, the sphere moves 
10 feet toward you in a straight line. 
 While in control of the sphere, you can take a 
Bonus Action to cause it to move in one direction 
of your choice, up to a number of feet equal to 
5 times your Intelligence modifier (minimum 5 
feet). Any creature whose space the sphere enters 
must succeed on a DC 19 Dexterity saving throw 
or be touched by it, taking 8d10 Force damage. A 
creature reduced to 0 Hit Points by this damage is 
obliterated, leaving its possessions behind but no 
other physical remains.
 Sphere Interactions.  If the sphere comes into 
contact with a planar portal (such as that created by 
the Gate spell) or an extradimensional space (such 
as that within a Portable Hole ), the GM determines 
randomly what happens using the following table.