System Reference Document 5.2.1
134
Forcecage
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,500+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An immobile, Invisible, Cube-shaped prison com -
posed of magical force springs into existence 
around an area you choose within range. The prison 
can be a cage or a solid box, as you choose.
 A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 feet 
on a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter bars 
spaced 1/2 inch apart. A prison in the shape of a box 
can be up to 10 feet on a side, creating a solid bar -
rier that prevents any matter from passing through 
it and blocking any spells cast into or out from the 
area.
 When you cast the spell, any creature that is com -
pletely inside the cage’s area is trapped. Creatures 
only partially within the area, or those too large to 
fit inside it, are pushed away from the center of the 
area until they are completely outside it.
 A creature inside the cage can’t leave it by non -
magical means. If the creature tries to use telepor -
tation or interplanar travel to leave, it must first 
make a Charisma saving throw. On a successful 
save, the creature can use that magic to exit the 
cage. On a failed save, the creature doesn’t exit the 
cage and wastes the spell or effect. The cage also 
extends into the Ethereal Plane, blocking ethereal 
travel.
 This spell can’t be dispelled by Dispel Magic .
Foresight
Level 9 Divination (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hummingbird feather)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature and bestow a limited 
ability to see into the immediate future. For the du -
ration, the target has Advantage on D20 Tests, and 
other creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against it. The spell ends early if you cast it again.
Freedom of Movement
Level 4 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a leather strap)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, 
the target’s movement is unaffected by Difficult 
Terrain, and spells and other magical effects can 
neither reduce the target’s Speed nor cause the tar -
get to have the Paralyzed or Restrained conditions. 
The target also has a Swim Speed equal to its Speed.
 In addition, the target can spend 5 feet of move -
ment to automatically escape from nonmagical 
restraints, such as manacles or a creature imposing 
the Grappled condition on it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 4.
Freezing Sphere
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature crystal sphere)
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid globe streaks from you to a point of 
your choice within range, where it explodes in a 
60-foot-radius Sphere. Each creature in that area 
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 10d6 
Cold damage on failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one.
 If the globe strikes a body of water, it freezes the 
water to a depth of 6 inches over an area 30 feet 
square. This ice lasts for 1 minute. Creatures that 
were swimming on the surface of frozen water are 
trapped in the ice and have the Restrained condi -
tion. A trapped creature can take an action to make 
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save 
DC to break free.
 You can refrain from firing the globe after com -
pleting the spell’s casting. If you do so, a globe about 
the size of a sling bullet, cool to the touch, appears 
in your hand. At any time, you or a creature you 
give the globe to can throw the globe (to a range of 
40 feet) or hurl it with a sling (to the sling’s normal 
range). It shatters on impact, with the same effect 
as a normal casting of the spell. You can also set the 
globe down without shattering it. After 1 minute, if 
the globe hasn’t already shattered, it explodes.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 6.
Gaseous Form
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a bit of gauze)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A willing creature you touch shape-shifts, along 
with everything it’s wearing and carrying, into a 
misty cloud for the duration. The spell ends on the 
target if it drops to 0 Hit Points or if it takes a Magic 
action to end the spell on itself.