System Reference Document 5.2.1
240
foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, or up to 3 feet 
of wood or dirt. Thicker substances or a thin sheet 
of lead block the vision.
 Whenever you use the ring again before taking a 
Long Rest, you must succeed on a DC 15 Constitu -
tion saving throw or gain 1 Exhaustion level.
Robe of Eyes
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This robe is adorned with eyelike patterns. While 
you wear the robe, you gain the following benefits:
All-Around Vision.  The robe gives you Advantage 
on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
Special Senses.  You have Darkvision and Truesight, 
both with a range of 120 feet.
 Drawbacks. A Light spell cast on the robe or a 
Daylight spell cast within 5 feet of the robe gives 
you the Blinded condition for 1 minute. At the end of 
each of your turns, you make a Constitution saving 
throw (DC 11 for Light or DC 15 for Daylight), ending 
the condition on yourself on a success.
Robe of Scintillating Colors
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This robe has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. While you wear it, 
you can take a Magic action and expend 1 charge 
to cause the garment to display a shifting pattern 
of dazzling hues until the end of your next turn. 
During this time, the robe sheds Bright Light in a 
30-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 
feet, and creatures that can see you have Disadvan -
tage on attack rolls against you. Any creature in the 
Bright Light that can see you when the robe’s power 
is activated must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom sav -
ing throw or have the Stunned condition until the 
effect ends. 
Robe of Stars
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This black or dark-blue robe is embroidered with 
small white or silver stars. You gain a +1 bonus to 
saving throws while you wear it.
 Six stars, located on the robe’s upper-front por -
tion, are particularly large. While wearing this 
robe, you can take a Magic action to remove one of 
the stars and expend it to cast the level 5 version of 
Magic Missile. Daily at dusk, 1d6 removed stars re -
appear on the robe.
 While you wear the robe, you can take a Magic ac -
tion to enter the Astral Plane along with everything 
you are wearing and carrying. You remain there 
until you take a Magic action to return to the plane 
you were on. You reappear in the last space you 
occupied or, if that space is occupied, the nearest 
unoccupied space.
Robe of the Archmagi
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement by a 
Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)
This elegant garment is made from exquisite cloth 
and adorned with runes.
 You gain these benefits while wearing the robe.
 Armor. If you aren’t wearing armor, your base 
Armor Class is 15 plus your Dexterity modifier.
 Magic Resistance. You have Advantage on saving 
throws against spells and other magical effects.
 War Mage. Your spell save DC and spell attack bo -
nus each increase by 2.
Robe of Useful Items
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This robe has cloth patches of various shapes and 
colors covering it. While wearing the robe, you can 
take a Magic action to detach one of the patches, 
causing it to become the object or creature it rep -
resents. Once the last patch is removed, the robe 
becomes an ordinary garment.
 The robe has two of each of the following patches:
• Bullseye Lantern (filled and lit)
• Dagger
• Mirror
• Pole
• Rope (coiled)
• Sack
In addition, the robe has 4d4 other patches. The GM 
chooses the patches or determines them randomly 
by rolling on the following table.
1d100 Patch
01–08 Bag of 100 GP
09–15 Silver coffer (1 foot long, 6 inches wide and 
deep) worth 500 GP
16–22 Iron door (up to 10 feet wide and 10 feet high, 
barred on one side of your choice), which you 
can place in an opening you can reach; it con -
forms to fit the opening, attaching and hinging 
itself
23–30 10 gems worth 100 GP each
31–44 Wooden ladder (24 feet long)
45–51 Riding Horse with a Riding Saddle
52–59 Open pit (a 10-foot Cube), which you can 
place on the ground within 10 feet of yourself
60–68 4 Potions of Healing
69–75 Rowboat (12 feet long)
76–83 Spell Scroll containing one spell of level 1, 2, or 
3 (your choice)