System Reference Document 5.2.1
156
Private Sanctum
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a thin sheet of lead)
Duration: 24 hours
You make an area within range magically secure. 
The area is a Cube that can be as small as 5 feet to 
as large as 100 feet on each side. The spell lasts for 
the duration.
 When you cast the spell, you decide what sort of 
security the spell provides, choosing any of the fol -
lowing properties:
• Sound can’t pass through the barrier at the edge 
of the warded area.
• The barrier of the warded area appears dark and 
foggy, preventing vision (including Darkvision) 
through it.
• Sensors created by Divination spells can’t appear 
inside the protected area or pass through the bar -
rier at its perimeter.
• Creatures in the area can’t be targeted by Divina-
tion spells.
• Nothing can teleport into or out of the warded 
area.
• Planar travel is blocked within the warded area.
 Casting this spell on the same spot every day for 
365 days makes the spell last until dispelled.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can increase 
the size of the Cube by 100 feet for each spell slot 
level above 4.
Produce Flame
Conjuration Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
A flickering flame appears in your hand and re -
mains there for the duration. While there, the flame 
emits no heat and ignites nothing, and it sheds 
Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an 
additional 20 feet. The spell ends if you cast it again.
 Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to 
hurl fire at a creature or an object within 60 feet of 
you. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, the target 
takes 1d8 Fire damage.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 
(4d8).
Programmed Illusion
Level 6 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 25+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You create an illusion of an object, a creature, or 
some other visible phenomenon within range that 
activates when a specific trigger occurs. The illu -
sion is imperceptible until then. It must be no larger 
than a 30-foot Cube, and you decide when you cast 
the spell how the illusion behaves and what sounds 
it makes. This scripted performance can last up to 5 
minutes.
 When the trigger you specify occurs, the illusion 
springs into existence and performs in the manner 
you described. Once the illusion finishes perform -
ing, it disappears and remains dormant for 10 min -
utes, after which the illusion can be activated again.
 The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you 
like, though it must be based on visual or audible 
phenomena that occur within 30 feet of the area. 
For example, you could create an illusion of yourself 
to appear and warn off others who attempt to open 
a trapped door.
 Physical interaction with the image reveals it 
to be illusory, since things can pass through it. A 
creature that takes the Study action to examine 
the image can determine that it is an illusion with a 
successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against 
your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illu -
sion for what it is, the creature can see through the 
image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the 
creature.
Project Image
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 miles
Components: V, S, M (a statuette of yourself worth 
5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
You create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for 
the duration. The copy can appear at any location 
within range that you have seen before, regardless 
of intervening obstacles. The illusion looks and 
sounds like you, but it is intangible. If the illusion 
takes any damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
 You can see through the illusion’s eyes and hear 
through its ears as if you were in its space. As a 
Magic action, you can move it up to 60 feet and 
make it gesture, speak, and behave in whatever way 
you choose. It mimics your mannerisms perfectly.
 Physical interaction with the image reveals it 
to be illusory, since things can pass through it. A 
creature that takes the Study action to examine 
the image can determine that it is an illusion with a 
successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against 
your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illu -
sion for what it is, the creature can see through the 