System Reference Document 5.2.1
237
 This potion’s cloudy green fluid smells of the sea 
and has a jellyfish-like bubble floating in it.
Quarterstaff of the Acrobat
Weapon (Quarterstaff), Very Rare (Requires 
Attunement)
You have a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 While holding this weapon, you can cause it to 
emit green Dim Light out to 10 feet, either as a Bo -
nus Action or after you roll Initiative, or you can 
extinguish the light as a Bonus Action.
 While holding this weapon, you can take a Bonus 
Action to alter its form, turning it into a 6-inch rod 
(for ease of storage) or a 10-foot pole, or reverting it 
a Quarterstaff; the weapon will elongate only as far 
as the surrounding space allows.
 In certain forms, the weapon has the following ad -
ditional properties.
 Acrobatic Assist (Quarterstaff and 10-Foot Pole 
Forms Only). While holding this weapon, you have 
Advantage on Dexterity (Acrobatics) checks.
 Attack Deflection (Quarterstaff Form Only). 
When you are hit by an attack while holding the 
weapon, you can take a Reaction to twirl the 
weapon around you, gaining a +5 bonus to your Ar -
mor Class against the triggering attack, potentially 
causing the attack to miss you. You can’t use this 
property again until you finish a Short or Long Rest.
 Ranged Weapon (Quarterstaff Form Only). This 
weapon has the Thrown property with a normal 
range of 30 feet and a long range of 120 feet. Im -
mediately after you make a ranged attack with the 
weapon, it flies back to your hand. 
Ring of Animal Influence
Ring, Rare 
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the 
ring, you can expend 1 charge to cast one of the fol -
lowing spells (save DC 13) from it:
• Animal Friendship
• Fear (affects Beasts only)
• Speak with Animals
Ring of Djinni Summoning
Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can take a Magic action 
to summon a particular Djinni  from the Elemental 
Plane of Air. The djinni appears in an unoccupied 
space you choose within 120 feet of yourself. It 
remains as long as you maintain Concentration, to a 
maximum of 1 hour, or until it drops to 0 Hit Points.
 While summoned, the djinni is Friendly to you and 
your allies, and it obeys your commands. If you fail 
to command it, the djinni defends itself against at -
tackers but takes no other actions.
 After the djinni departs, it can’t be summoned 
again for 24 hours, and the ring becomes nonmagi -
cal if the djinni dies.
 Rings of Djinni Summoning are often created by the 
djinn they summon and given to mortals as gifts of 
friendship or tokens of esteem. 
Ring of Elemental Command
Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
Each Ring of Elemental Command is linked to one of 
the four Elemental Planes. The GM chooses or ran -
domly determines the linked plane. For example, a 
Ring of Elemental Command (air) is linked to the Ele -
mental Plane of Air.
 Every Ring of Elemental Command has the follow-
ing two properties:
Elemental Bane.  While wearing the ring, you have 
Advantage on attack rolls against Elementals and 
they have Disadvantage on attack rolls against 
you.
Elemental Compulsion.  While wearing the ring, 
you can take a Magic action to try to compel an 
Elemental you see within 60 feet of yourself. The 
Elemental makes a DC 18 Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, the Elemental has the Charmed 
condition until the start your next turn, and you 
determine what it does with its move and action 
on its next turn.
 Elemental Focus. While wearing the ring, you 
benefit from additional properties corresponding to 
the ring’s linked Elemental Plane:
Air. You know Auran, you have Resistance to Light -
ning damage, and you have a Fly Speed equal to 
your Speed and can hover.
Earth.  You know Terran, and you have Resistance 
to Acid damage. Terrain composed of rubble, 
rocks, or dirt isn’t Difficult Terrain for you. In ad -
dition, you can move through solid earth or rock 
as if those areas were Difficult Terrain without 
disturbing the matter through which you pass. If 
you end your turn in solid earth or rock, you are 
shunted out to the nearest unoccupied space you 
last occupied.
Fire. You know Ignan, and you have Immunity to 
Fire damage.
Water. You know Aquan, you gain a Swim Speed of 
60 feet, and you can breathe underwater.
 Spellcasting. The ring has 5 charges and re -
gains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn. 
While wearing the ring, you can cast a spell from 
it. Choose the spell from the list of available spells 
based on the Elemental Plane the ring is linked to, 
as shown in the following table. The table indicates 
how many charges you must expend to cast the 
spell, which has a save DC of 18.