System Reference Document 5.2.1
144
Choose an object that you can see within range. The 
object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of mana-
cles, a padlock, or another object that contains a 
mundane or magical means that prevents access.
 A target that is held shut by a mundane lock or 
that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, 
or unbarred. If the object has multiple locks, only 
one of them is unlocked.
 If the target is held shut by Arcane Lock , that spell 
is suppressed for 10 minutes, during which time the 
target can be opened and closed.
 When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible up 
to 300 feet away, emanates from the target.
Legend Lore
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 250+ GP, which 
the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth 50+ 
GP each)
Duration: Instantaneous
Name or describe a famous person, place, or object. 
The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of 
the significant lore about that famous thing, as de -
scribed by the GM.
 The lore might consist of important details, amus -
ing revelations, or even secret lore that has never 
been widely known. The more information you 
already know about the thing, the more precise and 
detailed the information you receive is. That infor -
mation is accurate but might be couched in figura-
tive language or poetry, as determined by the GM.
 If the famous thing you chose isn’t actually fa-
mous, you hear sad musical notes played on a trom -
bone, and the spell fails.
Lesser Restoration
Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature and end one condition on it: 
Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, or Poisoned.
Levitate
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a metal spring)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
One creature or loose object of your choice that you 
can see within range rises vertically up to 20 feet 
and remains suspended there for the duration. The 
spell can levitate an object that weighs up to 500 
pounds. An unwilling creature that succeeds on a 
Constitution saving throw is unaffected.
 The target can move only by pushing or pulling 
against a fixed object or surface within reach (such 
as a wall or a ceiling), which allows it to move as if it 
were climbing. You can change the target’s altitude 
by up to 20 feet in either direction on your turn. If 
you are the target, you can move up or down as part 
of your move. Otherwise, you can take a Magic ac -
tion to move the target, which must remain within 
the spell’s range.
 When the spell ends, the target floats gently to the 
ground if it is still aloft.
Light
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent moss)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch one Large or smaller object that isn’t 
being worn or carried by someone else. Until the 
spell ends, the object sheds Bright Light in a 20-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 20 feet. The 
light can be colored as you like.
 Covering the object with something opaque blocks 
the light. The spell ends if you cast it again.
Lightning Bolt
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur and a crystal rod)
Duration: Instantaneous
A stroke of lightning forming a 100-foot-long, 
5-foot-wide Line blasts out from you in a direction 
you choose. Each creature in the Line makes a Dex -
terity saving throw, taking 8d6 Lightning damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc -
cessful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3.
Locate Animals or Plants
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Instantaneous
Describe or name a specific kind of Beast, Plant 
creature, or nonmagical plant. You learn the direc -
tion and distance to the closest creature or plant of 
that kind within 5 miles, if any are present.