System Reference Document 5.2.1
122
You create up to four torch-size lights within range, 
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glow -
ing orbs that hover for the duration. Alternatively, 
you combine the four lights into one glowing Me -
dium form that is vaguely humanlike. Whichever 
form you choose, each light sheds Dim Light in a 10-
foot radius.
 As a Bonus Action, you can move the lights up 
to 60 feet to a space within range. A light must be 
within 20 feet of another light created by this spell, 
and a light vanishes if it exceeds the spell’s range.
Darkness
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (bat fur and a piece of coal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, magical Darkness spreads from a 
point within range and fills a 15-foot-radius Sphere. 
Darkvision can’t see through it, and nonmagical 
light can’t illuminate it.
 Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that 
isn’t being worn or carried, causing the Darkness 
to fill a 15-foot Emanation originating from that 
object. Covering that object with something opaque, 
such as a bowl or helm, blocks the Darkness.
 If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of 
Bright Light or Dim Light created by a spell of level 
2 or lower, that other spell is dispelled.
Darkvision
Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a dried carrot)
Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, a willing creature you touch has 
Darkvision with a range of 150 feet.
Daylight
Level 3 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger, 
Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, sunlight spreads from a point 
within range and fills a 60-foot-radius Sphere. The 
sunlight’s area is Bright Light and sheds Dim Light 
for an additional 60 feet.
 Alternatively, you cast the spell on an object that 
isn’t being worn or carried, causing the sunlight 
to fill a 60-foot Emanation originating from that 
object. Covering that object with something opaque, 
such as a bowl or helm, blocks the sunlight.
 If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of 
Darkness created by a spell of level 3 or lower, that 
other spell is dispelled.
Death Ward
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a creature and grant it a measure of pro -
tection from death. The first time the target would 
drop to 0 Hit Points before the spell ends, the target 
instead drops to 1 Hit Point, and the spell ends.
 If the spell is still in effect when the target is sub -
jected to an effect that would kill it instantly with -
out dealing damage, that effect is negated against 
the target, and the spell ends.
Delayed Blast Fireball
Level 7 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of yellow light flashes from you, then con -
denses at a chosen point within range as a glowing 
bead for the duration. When the spell ends, the bead 
explodes, and each creature in a 20-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on that point makes a Dexterity 
saving throw. A creature takes Fire damage equal 
to the total accumulated damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one.
 The spell’s base damage is 12d6, and the damage 
increases by 1d6 whenever your turn ends and the 
spell hasn’t ended.
 If a creature touches the glowing bead before the 
spell ends, that creature makes a Dexterity saving 
throw. On a failed save, the spell ends, causing the 
bead to explode. On a successful save, the creature 
can throw the bead up to 40 feet. If the thrown bead 
enters a creature’s space or collides with a solid ob -
ject, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.
 When the bead explodes, flammable objects in the 
explosion that aren’t being worn or carried start 
burning.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The base damage 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 7.
Demiplane
Level 8 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: 1 hour