System Reference Document 5.2.1
123
You create a shadowy Medium door on a flat solid 
surface that you can see within range. This door can 
be opened and closed, and it leads to a demiplane 
that is an empty room 30 feet in each dimension, 
made of wood or stone (your choice).
 When the spell ends, the door vanishes, and any 
objects inside the demiplane remain there. Any 
creatures inside also remain unless they opt to be 
shunted through the door as it vanishes, landing 
with the Prone condition in the unoccupied spaces 
closest to the door’s former space.
 Each time you cast this spell, you can create a 
new demiplane or connect the shadowy door to a 
demiplane you created with a previous casting of 
this spell. Additionally, if you know the nature and 
contents of a demiplane created by a casting of this 
spell by another creature, you can connect the shad -
owy door to that demiplane instead.
Detect Evil and Good
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of any Ab -
erration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, or Undead 
within 30 feet of yourself. You also sense whether 
the Hallow spell is active there and, if so, where.
 The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
Detect Magic
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the presence of magical 
effects within 30 feet of yourself. If you sense such 
effects, you can take the Magic action to see a faint 
aura around any visible creature or object in the 
area that bears the magic, and if an effect was cre -
ated by a spell, you learn the spell’s school of magic.
 The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
Detect Poison and Disease
Level 1 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a yew leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the location of poisons, 
poisonous or venomous creatures, and magical 
contagions within 30 feet of yourself. You sense the 
kind of poison, creature, or contagion in each case.
 The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
Detect Thoughts
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (1 Copper Piece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You activate one of the effects below. Until the spell 
ends, you can activate either effect as a Magic action 
on your later turns.
 Sense Thoughts.  You sense the presence of 
thoughts within 30 feet of yourself that belong to 
creatures that know languages or are telepathic. 
You don’t read the thoughts, but you know that a 
thinking creature is present.
 The spell is blocked by 1 foot of stone, dirt, or 
wood; 1 inch of metal; or a thin sheet of lead.
 Read Thoughts. Target one creature you can see 
within 30 feet of yourself or one creature within 
30 feet of yourself that you detected with the Sense 
Thoughts option. You learn what is most on the tar -
get’s mind right now. If the target doesn’t know any 
languages and isn’t telepathic, you learn nothing.
 As a Magic action on your next turn, you can try 
to probe deeper into the target’s mind. If you probe 
deeper, the target makes a Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, you discern the target’s reasoning, 
emotions, and something that looms large in its 
mind (such as a worry, love, or hate). On a successful 
save, the spell ends. Either way, the target knows 
that you are probing into its mind, and until you 
shift your attention away from the target’s mind, 
the target can take an action on its turn to make an 
Intelligence (Arcana) check against your spell save 
DC, ending the spell on a success.
Dimension Door
Level 4 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You teleport to a location within range. You arrive 
at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place you can 
see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe 
by stating distance and direction, such as “200 feet 
straight downward” or “300 feet upward to the 
northwest at a 45-degree angle.”
 You can also teleport one willing creature. The 
creature must be within 5 feet of you when you tele -
port, and it teleports to a space within 5 feet of your 
destination space.