System Reference Document 5.2.1
109
one object, a Large target counts as two, and a Huge 
target counts as three.
 Each target animates, sprouts legs, and becomes 
a Construct that uses the Animated Object  stat 
block; this creature is under your control until the 
spell ends or until it is reduced to 0 Hit Points. Each 
creature you make with this spell is an ally to you 
and your allies. In combat, it shares your Initiative 
count and takes its turn immediately after yours. 
 Until the spell ends, you can take a Bonus Action 
to mentally command any creature you made with 
this spell if the creature is within 500 feet of you (if 
you control multiple creatures, you can command 
any of them at the same time, issuing the same 
command to each one). If you issue no commands, 
the creature takes the Dodge action and moves only 
to avoid harm. When the creature drops to 0 Hit 
Points, it reverts to its object form, and any remain -
ing damage carries over to that form. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The creature’s 
Slam damage increases by 1d4 (Medium or smaller), 
1d6 (Large), or 1d12 (Huge) for each spell slot level 
above 5. 
or make attacks with Ranged or Reach weapons 
through the barrier.
 If you move so that an affected creature is forced 
to pass through the barrier, the spell ends.
Antimagic Field
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An aura of antimagic surrounds you in 10-foot Em -
anation. No one can cast spells, take Magic actions, 
or create other magical effects inside the aura, and 
those things can’t target or otherwise affect any -
thing inside it. Magical properties of magic items 
don’t work inside the aura or on anything inside it.
 Areas of effect created by spells or other magic 
can’t extend into the aura, and no one can teleport 
into or out of it or use planar travel there. Portals 
close temporarily while in the aura.
 Ongoing spells, except those cast by an Artifact or 
a deity, are suppressed in the area. While an effect 
is suppressed, it doesn’t function, but the time it 
spends suppressed counts against its duration.
 Dispel Magic has no effect on the aura, and the au -
ras created by different Antimagic Field spells don’t 
nullify each other.
Antipathy/Sympathy
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mix of vinegar and honey)
Duration: 10 days
As you cast the spell, choose whether it creates 
antipathy or sympathy, and target one creature or 
object that is Huge or smaller. Then specify a kind of 
creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires. 
A creature of the chosen kind makes a Wisdom 
saving throw when it comes within 120 feet of the 
target. Your choice of antipathy or sympathy deter -
mines what happens to a creature when it fails that 
save:
Antipathy. The creature has the Frightened condi -
tion. The Frightened creature must use its move -
ment on its turns to get as far away as possible 
from the target, moving by the safest route.
Sympathy. The creature has the Charmed condi -
tion. The Charmed creature must use its move -
ment on its turns to get as close as possible to the 
target, moving by the safest route. If the creature 
is within 5 feet of the target, the creature can’t 
willingly move away. If the target damages the 
Charmed creature, that creature can make a 
Animated Object
Huge or Smaller Construct, Unaligned
AC 15
HP 10 (Medium or smaller), 20 (Large), 40 (Huge) 
Speed 30 ft.
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
Str 16 +3 +3     dex 10 +0 +0 con 10 +0 +0
int 3 −4 −4 WiS 3 −4 −4 chA 1 −5 −5
Immunities Poison, Psychic; Charmed, Exhaustion, 
Frightened, Paralyzed, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft.; Passive Perception 6
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
Actions
Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: Force damage equal to 1d4 
+ 3 (Medium or smaller), 2d6 + 3 + your spellcasting 
ability modifier (Large), or 2d12 + 3 + your spellcasting 
ability modifier (Huge).
Antilife Shell
Level 5 Abjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
An aura extends from you in a 10-foot Emanation 
for the duration. The aura prevents creatures other 
than Constructs and Undead from passing or reach -
ing through it. An affected creature can cast spells 