System Reference Document 5.2.1
37
 When you reach Cleric levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another cantrip of your choice from the Cleric spell 
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Cleric 
Features table.
 Spell Slots. The Cleric Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ 
spells. You regain all expended slots when you fin -
ish a Long Rest.
 Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list 
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast 
with this feature. To start, choose four level 1 spells 
from the Cleric spell list. Bless , Cure Wounds, Guiding 
Bolt, and Shield of Faith are recommended.
 The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Cleric levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Cleric Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional spells from the 
Cleric spell list until the number of spells on your 
list matches the number on the table. The chosen 
spells must be of a level for which you have spell 
slots. For example, if you’re a level 3 Cleric, your list 
of prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1 
and 2 in any combination.
 If another Cleric feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don’t count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Cleric spells for you.
 Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre -
pared spells, replacing any of the spells there with 
other Cleric spells for which you have spell slots.
 Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for your Cleric spells.
 Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Holy Symbol as 
a Spellcasting Focus for your Cleric spells.
Level 1: Divine Order
You have dedicated yourself to one of the following 
sacred roles of your choice.
 Protector.  Trained for battle, you gain proficiency 
with Martial weapons and training with Heavy 
armor.
 Thaumaturge.  You know one extra cantrip from 
the Cleric spell list. In addition, your mystical con -
nection to the divine gives you a bonus to your 
Intelligence (Arcana or Religion) checks. The bonus 
equals your Wisdom modifier (minimum of +1).
Level 2: Channel Divinity
You can channel divine energy directly from the 
Outer Planes to fuel magical effects. You start with 
two such effects: Divine Spark and Turn Undead, 
each of which is described below. Each time you use 
this class’s Channel Divinity, choose which Channel 
Divinity effect from this class to create. You gain ad -
ditional effect options at higher Cleric levels.
 You can use this class’s Channel Divinity twice. 
You regain one of its expended uses when you finish 
a Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. You gain additional uses 
when you reach certain Cleric levels, as shown in 
the Channel Divinity column of the Cleric Features 
table.
 If a Channel Divinity effect requires a saving 
throw, the DC equals the spell save DC from this 
class’s Spellcasting feature.
 Divine Spark. As a Magic action, you point your 
Holy Symbol at another creature you can see within 
30 feet of yourself and focus divine energy at it. 
Roll 1d8 and add your Wisdom modifier. You either 
restore Hit Points to the creature equal to that total 
or force the creature to make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes Necrotic 
or Radiant damage (your choice) equal to that to -
tal. On a successful save, the creature takes half as 
much damage (round down).
 You roll an additional d8 when you reach Cleric 
levels 7 (2d8), 13 (3d8), and 18 (4d8).
 Turn Undead. As a Magic action, you present your 
Holy Symbol and censure Undead creatures. Each 
Undead of your choice within 30 feet of you must 
make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails 
its save, it has the Frightened and Incapacitated 
conditions for 1 minute. For that duration, it tries 
to move as far from you as it can on its turns. This 
effect ends early on the creature if it takes any dam -
age, if you have the Incapacitated condition, or if 
you die.
Level 3: Cleric Subclass
You gain a Cleric subclass of your choice. The Life 
Domain subclass is detailed after this class’s de -
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Cleric levels. For the rest of 
your career, you gain each of your subclass’s fea-
tures that are of your Cleric level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Cleric levels 8, 
12, and 16.
Level 5: Sear Undead
Whenever you use Turn Undead, you can roll a 
number of d8s equal to your Wisdom modifier 
(minimum of 1d8) and add the rolls together. Each 
Undead that fails its saving throw against that use 
of Turn Undead takes Radiant damage equal to the 
roll’s total. This damage doesn’t end the turn effect.