System Reference Document 5.2.1
111
Components: V, S, M (a small square of silk)
Duration: 24 hours
With a touch, you place an illusion on a willing crea-
ture or an object that isn’t being worn or carried. A 
creature gains the Mask effect below, and an object 
gains the False Aura effect below. The effect lasts 
for the duration. If you cast the spell on the same 
target every day for 30 days, the illusion lasts until 
dispelled.
 Mask (Creature). Choose a creature type other 
than the target’s actual type. Spells and other magi -
cal effects treat the target as if it were a creature of 
the chosen type.
 False Aura (Object). You change the way the tar -
get appears to spells and magical effects that detect 
magical auras, such as Detect Magic . You can make 
a nonmagical object appear magical, make a magic 
item appear nonmagical, or change the object’s aura 
so that it appears to belong to a school of magic you 
choose.
Astral Projection
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (for each of the spell’s targets, 
one jacinth worth 1,000+ GP and one silver bar worth 
100+ GP, all of which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You and up to eight willing creatures within range 
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane 
(the spell ends instantly if you are already on that 
plane). Each target’s body is left behind in a state of 
suspended animation; it has the Unconscious condi -
tion, doesn’t need food or air, and doesn’t age.
 A target’s astral form resembles its body in almost 
every way, replicating its game statistics and pos -
sessions. The principal difference is the addition of 
a silvery cord that trails from between the shoulder 
blades of the astral form. The cord fades from view 
after 1 foot. If the cord is cut—which happens only 
when an effect states that it does so—the target’s 
body and astral form both die.
 A target’s astral form can travel through the As -
tral Plane. The moment an astral form leaves that 
plane, the target’s body and possessions travel 
along the silver cord, causing the target to re-enter 
its body on the new plane.
 Any damage or other effects that apply to an as -
tral form have no effect on the target’s body and 
vice versa. If a target’s body or astral form drops to 
0 Hit Points, the spell ends for that target. The spell 
ends for all the targets if you take a Magic action to 
dismiss it.
 When the spell ends for a target who isn’t dead, 
the target reappears in its body and exits the state 
of suspended animation.
Augury
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones, 
cards, or other divinatory tokens worth 25+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You receive an omen from an otherworldly entity 
about the results of a course of action that you plan 
to take within the next 30 minutes. The GM chooses 
the omen from the Omens table.
Omens
Omen For Results That Will Be …
Weal Good
Woe Bad
Weal and woe Good and bad
Indifference Neither good nor bad
The spell doesn’t account for circumstances, such as 
other spells, that might change the results.
 If you cast the spell more than once before finish -
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent 
chance for each casting after the first that you get 
no answer.
Aura of Life
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation 
for the duration. While in the aura, you and your 
allies have Resistance to Necrotic damage, and your 
Hit Point maximums can’t be reduced. If an ally with 
0 Hit Points starts its turn in the aura, that ally re -
gains 1 Hit Point.
Awaken
Level 5 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: 8 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an agate worth 1,000+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You spend the casting time tracing magical path -
ways within a precious gemstone, and then touch 
the target. The target must be either a Beast or 
Plant creature with an Intelligence of 3 or less or a 
natural plant that isn’t a creature. The target gains 