System Reference Document 5.2.1
90
iMprovisEd wEapons
If you use an object—such as a table leg, frying pan, 
or bottle—as a makeshift weapon, see “Improvised 
Weapons” in “Rules Glossary.” Also see those rules 
if you wield a weapon in an unusual way, such as using 
a Ranged weapon to make a melee attack.
Loading
You can fire only one piece of ammunition from a 
Loading weapon when you use an action, a Bonus 
Action, or a Reaction to fire it, regardless of the 
number of attacks you can normally make.
Range
A Range weapon has a range in parentheses after 
the Ammunition or Thrown property. The range 
lists two numbers. The first is the weapon’s normal 
range in feet, and the second is the weapon’s long 
range. When attacking a target beyond normal 
range, you have Disadvantage on the attack roll. You 
can’t attack a target beyond the long range.
Reach
A Reach weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when you 
attack with it, as well as when determining your 
reach for Opportunity Attacks with it.
Thrown
If a weapon has the Thrown property, you can 
throw the weapon to make a ranged attack, and 
you can draw that weapon as part of the attack. If 
the weapon is a Melee weapon, use the same ability 
modifier for the attack and damage rolls that you 
use for a melee attack with that weapon.
Two-Handed
A Two-Handed weapon requires two hands when 
you attack with it.
Versatile
A Versatile weapon can be used with one or two 
hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with 
the property. The weapon deals that damage when 
used with two hands to make a melee attack.
Mastery Properties
Each weapon has a mastery property, which is us -
able only by a character who has a feature, such as 
Weapon Mastery, that unlocks the property for the 
character. The properties are defined below.
Cleave
If you hit a creature with a melee attack roll using 
this weapon, you can make a melee attack roll with 
the weapon against a second creature within 5 feet 
of the first that is also within your reach. On a hit, 
the second creature takes the weapon’s damage, 
but don’t add your ability modifier to that damage 
unless that modifier is negative. You can make this 
extra attack only once per turn.
Graze
If your attack roll with this weapon misses a crea-
ture, you can deal damage to that creature equal 
to the ability modifier you used to make the attack 
roll. This damage is the same type dealt by the 
weapon, and the damage can be increased only by 
increasing the ability modifier.
Nick
When you make the extra attack of the Light prop -
erty, you can make it as part of the Attack action in -
stead of as a Bonus Action. You can make this extra 
attack only once per turn.
Push
If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can push 
the creature up to 10 feet straight away from your -
self if it is Large or smaller.
Sap
If you hit a creature with this weapon, that creature 
has Disadvantage on its next attack roll before the 
start of your next turn.
Slow
If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal 
damage to it, you can reduce its Speed by 10 feet un -
til the start of your next turn. If the creature is hit 
more than once by weapons that have this property, 
the Speed reduction doesn’t exceed 10 feet.
Topple
If you hit a creature with this weapon, you can force 
the creature to make a Constitution saving throw 
(DC 8 plus the ability modifier used to make the 
attack roll and your Proficiency Bonus). On a failed 
save, the creature has the Prone condition.
Vex
If you hit a creature with this weapon and deal dam -
age to the creature, you have Advantage on your 
next attack roll against that creature before the end 
of your next turn.