System Reference Document 5.2.1
171
creature’s name. The creature then appears in an 
unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.
True Seeing
Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (mushroom powder worth 25+ 
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has 
Truesight with a range of 120 feet.
True Strike
Divination Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S, M (a weapon with which you have profi -
ciency and that is worth 1+ CP)
Duration: Instantaneous
Guided by a flash of magical insight, you make one 
attack with the weapon used in the spell’s casting. 
The attack uses your spellcasting ability for the at -
tack and damage rolls instead of using Strength or 
Dexterity. If the attack deals damage, it can be Ra-
diant damage or the weapon’s normal damage type 
(your choice).
 Cantrip Upgrade. Whether you deal Radiant dam -
age or the weapon’s normal damage type, the attack 
deals extra Radiant damage when you reach levels 5 
(1d6), 11 (2d6), and 17 (3d6).
Tsunami
Level 8 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 6 rounds
A wall of water springs into existence at a point you 
choose within range. You can make the wall up to 
300 feet long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The 
wall lasts for the duration.
 When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 6d10 Blud -
geoning damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
 At the start of each of your turns after the wall 
appears, the wall, along with any creatures in it, 
moves 50 feet away from you. Any Huge or smaller 
creature inside the wall or whose space the wall 
enters when it moves must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw or take 5d10 Bludgeoning damage. A 
creature can take this damage only once per round. 
At the end of the turn, the wall’s height is reduced 
by 50 feet, and the damage the wall deals on later 
rounds is reduced by 1d10. When the wall reaches 0 
feet in height, the spell ends.
 A creature caught in the wall can move by swim -
ming. Because of the wave’s force, though, the crea-
ture must succeed on a Strength (Athletics) check 
against your spell save DC to move at all. If it fails 
the check, it can’t move. A creature that moves out 
of the wall falls to the ground.
Unseen Servant
Level 1 Conjuration (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of string and of wood)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell creates an Invisible, mindless, shapeless, 
Medium force that performs simple tasks at your 
command until the spell ends. The servant springs 
into existence in an unoccupied space on the 
ground within range. It has AC 10, 1 Hit Point, and a 
Strength of 2, and it can’t attack. If it drops to 0 Hit 
Points, the spell ends.
 Once on each of your turns as a Bonus Action, you 
can mentally command the servant to move up to 
15 feet and interact with an object. The servant can 
perform simple tasks that a human could do, such as 
fetching things, cleaning, mending, folding clothes, 
lighting fires, serving food, and pouring drinks. 
Once you give the command, the servant performs 
the task to the best of its ability until it completes 
the task, then waits for your next command.
 If you command the servant to perform a task that 
would move it more than 60 feet away from you, the 
spell ends.
Vampiric Touch
Level 3 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can si -
phon life force from others to heal your wounds. 
Make a melee spell attack against one creature 
within reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d6 Necrotic 
damage, and you regain Hit Points equal to half the 
amount of Necrotic damage dealt.
 Until the spell ends, you can make the attack again 
on each of your turns as a Magic action, targeting 
the same creature or a different one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3.
Vicious Mockery
Enchantment Cantrip (Bard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet