System Reference Document 5.2.1
126
 You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar -
get while the two of you are on the same plane of 
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to 
issue commands to the target (no action required), 
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,” or 
“Fetch that object.” The target does its best to obey 
on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn’t re -
ceive further direction from you, it acts and moves 
as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
 You can command the target to take a Reaction 
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra -
tion can last longer with a level 9 spell slot (up to 8 
hours).
Dominate Person
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One Humanoid you can see within range must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the 
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has 
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight -
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats 
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
 You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar -
get while the two of you are on the same plane of 
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to 
issue commands to the target (no action required), 
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,” or 
“Fetch that object.” The target does its best to obey 
on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn’t re -
ceive further direction from you, it acts and moves 
as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
 You can command the target to take a Reaction 
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra -
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 6 (up to 
10 minutes), 7 (up to 1 hour), or 8+ (up to 8 hours).
Dragon’s Breath
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hot pepper)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch one willing creature, and choose Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison. Until the spell 
ends, the target can take a Magic action to exhale 
a 15-foot Cone. Each creature in that area makes a 
Dexterity saving throw, taking 3d6 damage of the 
chosen type on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.
Dream
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M (a handful of sand)
Duration: 8 hours
You target a creature you know on the same plane 
of existence. You or a willing creature you touch 
enters a trance state to act as a dream messenger. 
While in the trance, the messenger is Incapacitated 
and has a Speed of 0.
 If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in 
the target’s dreams and can converse with the tar -
get as long as it remains asleep, through the spell’s 
duration. The messenger can also shape the dream’s 
environment, creating landscapes, objects, and 
other images. The messenger can emerge from the 
trance at any time, ending the spell. The target re -
calls the dream perfectly upon waking.
 If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the 
messenger knows it and can either end the trance 
(and the spell) or wait for the target to sleep, at 
which point the messenger enters its dreams.
 You can make the messenger terrifying to the tar -
get. If you do so, the messenger can deliver a mes -
sage of no more than ten words, and then the target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target gains no benefit from its rest, and it takes 
3d6 Psychic damage when it wakes up.
Druidcraft
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one 
of the following effects within range.
 Weather Sensor. You create a Tiny, harmless sen -
sory effect that predicts what the weather will be at 
your location for the next 24 hours. The effect might 
manifest as a golden orb for clear skies, a cloud for 
rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so on. This 
effect persists for 1 round.
 Bloom. You instantly make a flower blossom, a 
seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.
 Sensory Effect.  You create a harmless sensory ef -
fect, such as falling leaves, spectral dancing fairies, 
a gentle breeze, the sound of an animal, or the faint 
odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot Cube.
 Fire Play. You light or snuff out a candle, a torch, 
or a campfire.