System Reference Document 5.2.1
128
the chosen effect below). A targeted object must 
be neither worn nor carried. If the target is an un -
willing creature, it can make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a successful save, the spell has no effect.
 Everything that a targeted creature is wearing 
and carrying changes size with it. Any item it drops 
returns to normal size at once. A thrown weapon or 
piece of ammunition returns to normal size imme -
diately after it hits or misses a target.
 Enlarge.  The target’s size increases by one cat -
egory—from Medium to Large, for example. The 
target also has Advantage on Strength checks and 
Strength saving throws. The target’s attacks with 
its enlarged weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal an 
extra 1d4 damage on a hit.
 Reduce.  The target’s size decreases by one cate -
gory—from Medium to Small, for example. The tar -
get also has Disadvantage on Strength checks and 
Strength saving throws. The target’s attacks with 
its reduced weapons or Unarmed Strikes deal 1d4 
less damage on a hit (this can’t reduce the damage 
below 1).
Ensnaring Strike
Level 1 Conjuration (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi -
ately after hitting a creature with a weapon
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
As you hit the target, grasping vines appear on it, 
and it makes a Strength saving throw. A Large or 
larger creature has Advantage on this save. On a 
failed save, the target has the Restrained condition 
until the spell ends. On a successful save, the vines 
shrivel away, and the spell ends.
 While Restrained, the target takes 1d6 Piercing 
damage at the start of each of its turns. The target 
or a creature within reach of it can take an action to 
make a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell 
save DC. On a success, the spell ends.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.
Entangle
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Grasping plants sprout from the ground in a 20-foot 
square within range. For the duration, these plants 
turn the ground in the area into Difficult Terrain. 
They disappear when the spell ends.
 Each creature (other than you) in the area when 
you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw or have the Restrained condition until 
the spell ends. A Restrained creature can take an 
action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against 
your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself from 
the grasping plants and is no longer Restrained by 
them.
Enthrall
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You weave a distracting string of words, causing 
creatures of your choice that you can see within 
range to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any crea-
ture you or your companions are fighting automati -
cally succeeds on this save. On a failed save, a target 
has a −10 penalty to Wisdom (Perception) checks 
and Passive Perception until the spell ends.
Etherealness
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to 8 hours
You step into the border regions of the Ethereal 
Plane, where it overlaps with your current plane. 
You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration. 
During this time, you can move in any direction. If 
you move up or down, every foot of movement costs 
an extra foot. You can perceive the plane you left, 
which looks gray, and you can’t see anything there 
more than 60 feet away.
 While on the Ethereal Plane, you can affect and 
be affected only by creatures, objects, and effects 
on that plane. Creatures that aren’t on the Ethereal 
Plane can’t perceive or interact with you unless a 
feature gives them the ability to do so.
 When the spell ends, you return to the plane you 
left in the spot that corresponds to your space in the 
Border Ethereal. If you appear in an occupied space, 
you are shunted to the nearest unoccupied space 
and take Force damage equal to twice the number 
of feet you are moved.
 This spell ends instantly if you cast it while you 
are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn’t 
border it, such as one of the Outer Planes.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target up 
to three willing creatures (including yourself) for 
each spell slot level above 7. The creatures must be 
within 10 feet of you when you cast the spell.