System Reference Document 5.2.1
184
Incapacitated [Condition]
While you have the Incapacitated condition, you ex -
perience the following effects.
 Inactive.  You can’t take any action, Bonus Action, 
or Reaction.
 No Concentration. Your Concentration is broken.
 Speechless.  You can’t speak.
 Surprised.  If you’re Incapacitated when you roll 
Initiative, you have Disadvantage on the roll.
Indifferent [Attitude]
An Indifferent creature has no desire to help or hin -
der you. Indifferent is the default attitude of a mon -
ster. See also “Influence.”
Influence [Action]
With the Influence action, you urge a monster to 
do something. Describe or roleplay how you’re 
communicating with the monster. Are you trying to 
deceive, intimidate, amuse, or gently persuade? The 
GM then determines whether the monster feels will -
ing, unwilling, or hesitant due to your interaction; 
this determination establishes whether an ability 
check is necessary, as explained below.
 Willing.  If your urging aligns with the monster’s 
desires, no ability check is necessary; the monster 
fulfills your request in a way it prefers.
 Unwilling.  If your urging is repugnant to the mon -
ster or counter to its alignment, no ability check is 
necessary; it doesn’t comply.
 Hesitant.  If you urge the monster to do something 
that it is hesitant to do, you must make an ability 
check, which is affected by the monster’s attitude: 
Indifferent, Friendly, or Hostile, each of which is 
defined in this glossary. The Influence Checks ta-
ble suggests which ability check to make based on 
how you’re interacting with the monster. The GM 
chooses the check, which has a default DC equal to 
15 or the monster’s Intelligence score, whichever 
is higher. On a successful check, the monster does 
as urged. On a failed check, you must wait 24 hours 
(or a duration set by the GM) before urging it in the 
same way again.
Influence Checks
Ability Check Interaction
Charisma (Deception) Deceiving a monster 
that understands you
Charisma (Intimidation) Intimidating a monster
Charisma (Performance) Amusing a monster
Charisma (Persuasion) Persuading a monster 
that understands you
Wisdom (Animal Handling) Gently coaxing a Beast 
or Monstrosity
Initiative
Initiative determines the order of turns during com -
bat. The combat rules in “Playing the Game” explain 
how to roll Initiative.
 Sometimes a GM might have combatants use 
their Initiative scores instead of rolling Initiative. 
Your Initiative score equals 10 plus your Dexterity 
modifier. If you have Advantage on Initiative rolls, 
increase your Initiative score by 5. If you have Dis -
advantage on those rolls, decrease that score by 5. 
See also “Playing the Game” (“Combat”).
Invisible [Condition]
While you have the Invisible condition, you experi -
ence the following effects.
 Surprise.  If you’re Invisible when you roll Initia-
tive, you have Advantage on the roll.
 Concealed.  You aren’t affected by any effect that 
requires its target to be seen unless the effect’s cre -
ator can somehow see you. Any equipment you are 
wearing or carrying is also concealed.
 Attacks Affected.  Attack rolls against you have 
Disadvantage, and your attack rolls have Advan -
tage. If a creature can somehow see you, you don’t 
gain this benefit against that creature.
Jumping
When you jump, you make either a Long Jump (hor -
izontal) or a High Jump (vertical). See also  “Long 
Jump” and “High Jump.”
Knocking Out a Creature
When you would reduce a creature to 0 Hit Points 
with a melee attack, you can instead reduce the 
creature to 1 Hit Point. The creature then has the 
Unconscious condition and starts a Short Rest.
 The creature remains Unconscious until it regains 
any Hit Points or until someone uses an action to 
administer first aid to it, which requires a success -
ful DC 10 Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Lightly Obscured
You have Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) 
checks to see something in a Lightly Obscured 
space. See also “Dim Light” and “Playing the Game” 
(“Exploration”).
Line [Area of Effect]
A Line is an area of effect that extends from a point 
of origin in a straight path along its length and cov -
ers an area defined by its width. The effect that cre -
ates a Line specifies its length and width.
 A Line’s point of origin isn’t included in the area of 
effect unless its creator decides otherwise.
Long Jump
When you make a Long Jump, you leap horizontally 
a number of feet up to your Strength score if you 