System Reference Document 5.2.1
127
Earthquake
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fractured rock)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a point on the ground that you can see 
within range. For the duration, an intense tremor 
rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle 
centered on that point. The ground there is Difficult 
Terrain.
 When you cast this spell and at the end of each of 
your turns for the duration, each creature on the 
ground in the area makes a Dexterity saving throw. 
On a failed save, a creature has the Prone condition, 
and its Concentration is broken.
 You can also cause the effects below.
 Fissures. A total of 1d6 fissures open in the spell’s 
area at the end of the turn you cast it. You choose 
the fissures’ locations, which can’t be under struc -
tures. Each fissure is 1d10 × 10 feet deep and 10 
feet wide, and it extends from one edge of the spell’s 
area to another edge. A creature in the same space 
as a fissure must succeed on a Dexterity saving 
throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves 
moves with the fissure’s edge as it opens.
 Structures.  The tremor deals 50 Bludgeoning 
damage to any structure in contact with the ground 
in the area when you cast the spell and at the end of 
each of your turns until the spell ends. If a structure 
drops to 0 Hit Points, it collapses.
 A creature within a distance from a collapsing 
structure equal to half the structure’s height makes 
a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the crea-
ture takes 12d6 Bludgeoning damage, has the Prone 
condition, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a 
DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to es -
cape. On a successful save, the creature takes half as 
much damage only.
Eldritch Blast
Evocation Cantrip (Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a beam of crackling energy. Make a ranged 
spell attack against one creature or object in range. 
On a hit, the target takes 1d10 Force damage.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The spell creates two beams at 
level 5, three beams at level 11, and four beams at 
level 17. You can direct the beams at the same target 
or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for 
each beam.
Elementalism
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You exert control over the elements, creating one of 
the following effects within range.
 Beckon Air. You create a breeze strong enough to 
ripple cloth, stir dust, rustle leaves, and close open 
doors and shutters, all in a 5-foot Cube. Doors and 
shutters being held open by someone or something 
aren’t affected.
 Beckon Earth. You create a thin shroud of dust or 
sand that covers surfaces in a 5-foot-square area, or 
you cause a single word to appear in your handwrit -
ing in a patch of dirt or sand.
 Beckon Fire. You create a thin cloud of harmless 
embers and colored, scented smoke in a 5-foot Cube. 
You choose the color and scent, and the embers can 
light candles, torches, or lamps in that area. The 
smoke’s scent lingers for 1 minute.
 Beckon Water. You create a spray of cool mist that 
lightly dampens creatures and objects in a 5-foot 
Cube. Alternatively, you create 1 cup of clean water 
either in an open container or on a surface, and the 
water evaporates in 1 minute.
 Sculpt Element. You cause dirt, sand, fire, smoke, 
mist, or water that can fit in a 1-foot Cube to assume 
a crude shape (such as that of a creature) for 1 hour.
Enhance Ability
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Ranger, 
Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (fur or a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a creature and choose Strength, Dex -
terity, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma. For the 
duration, the target has Advantage on ability checks 
using the chosen ability.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 2. You can choose a different ability for each 
target.
Enlarge/Reduce
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, the spell enlarges or reduces a 
creature or an object you can see within range (see 