System Reference Document 5.2.1
218
1d100 Illusion*
82–84 Priest
85–87 Succubus
88–90 Troll
91–93 Veteran Warrior
94–96 Wyvern
97–00 The card drawer
*Stat blocks for these creatures (except the card drawer) appear in 
“Monsters.”
Defender
Weapon (Any Melee Weapon), Legendary (Requires 
Attunement)
You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 The first time you attack with the weapon on each 
of your turns, you can transfer some or all of the 
weapon’s bonus to your Armor Class. For example, 
you could reduce the bonus to your attack rolls and 
damage rolls to +1 and gain a +2 bonus to Armor 
Class. The adjusted bonuses remain in effect until 
the start of your next turn, although you must hold 
the weapon to gain a bonus to AC from it.
Demon Armor
Armor (Any Light, Medium, or Heavy), Very Rare 
(Requires Attunement)
While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to 
Armor Class, and you know Abyssal. In addition, 
the armor’s clawed gauntlets allow your Unarmed 
Strikes to deal 1d8 Slashing damage instead of the 
usual Bludgeoning damage, and you gain a +1 bonus 
to the attack and damage rolls of your Unarmed 
Strikes.
 Curse. Once you don this cursed armor, you can’t 
doff it unless you are targeted by a Remove Curse 
spell or similar magic. While wearing the armor, 
you have Disadvantage on attack rolls against de -
mons and on saving throws against their spells and 
special abilities.
Dimensional Shackles
Wondrous Item, Rare 
You can take a Utilize action to place these shackles 
on a creature that has the Incapacitated condition. 
The shackles adjust to fit a creature of Small to 
Large size. The shackles prevent a creature bound 
by them from using any method of extradimen -
sional movement, including teleportation or travel 
to a different plane of existence. They don’t prevent 
the creature from passing through an interdimen -
sional portal.
 You and any creature you designate when you 
use the shackles can take a Utilize action to remove 
them. Once every 30 days, the bound creature can 
make a DC 30 Strength (Athletics) check. On a suc -
cessful check, the creature breaks free and destroys 
the shackles.
Dragon Orb
Wondrous Item, Artifact (Requires Attunement)
An orb is an etched crystal globe about 10 inches in 
diameter. When used, it grows to about 20 inches in 
diameter, and mist swirls inside it.
 While attuned to an orb, you can take a Magic 
action to peer into the orb’s depths. You must then 
make a DC 15 Charisma saving throw. On a success -
ful save, you control the orb for as long as you re -
main attuned to it. On a failed save, the orb imposes 
the Charmed condition on you for as long as you 
remain attuned to it.
 While you are Charmed by the orb, you can’t 
voluntarily end your Attunement to it, and the orb 
casts Suggestion  on you at will (save DC 18), urging 
you to work toward the evil ends it desires. The 
dragon essence within the orb might want many 
things: the annihilation of a particular society or or -
ganization, freedom from the orb, to spread suffer -
ing in the world, to advance the worship of Tiamat, 
or something else the GM decides.
 Spells. The orb has 7 charges and regains 1d4 + 3 
expended charges daily at dawn. If you control the 
orb, you can cast one of the spells on the following 
table from it. The table indicates how many charges 
you must expend to cast the spell. 
Spell Charge 
Cost
Cure Wounds (level 9 version) 4
Daylight 1
Death Ward 2
Detect Magic 0
Scrying (save DC 18) 3
 Call Dragons. While you control the orb, you 
can take a Magic action to cause the orb to issue a 
telepathic call that extends in all directions for 40 
miles. Chromatic dragons in range feel compelled 
to come to the orb as soon as possible by the most 
direct route. Dragon deities such as Tiamat are un -
affected by this call. Chromatic dragons drawn to 
the orb might be Hostile toward you for compelling 
them against their will. Once you have used this 
property, it can’t be used again for 1 hour.
 Destroying an Orb. A Dragon Orb has AC 20 and is 
destroyed if it takes damage from a +3 Weapon or a 
Disintegrate spell. Nothing else can harm it.
Dragon Scale Mail
Armor (Scale Mail), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
Dragon Scale Mail is made of the scales of one kind 
of dragon. Sometimes dragons collect their cast-off 