System Reference Document 5.2.1
213
in the Sphere must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity 
saving throw or take 5d4 Force damage. A sphere 
of transparent force then encloses the area for 1 
minute. Any creature that failed the save and is 
completely within the area is trapped inside this 
sphere. Creatures that succeeded on the save or are 
partially within the area are pushed away from the 
center of the sphere until they are no longer inside 
it. Only breathable air can pass through the sphere’s 
wall. No attack or other effect can pass through.
 An enclosed creature can take a Utilize action to 
push against the sphere’s wall, moving the sphere 
up to half the creature’s Speed. The sphere can be 
picked up, and its magic causes it to weigh only 1 
pound, regardless of the weight of creatures inside.
Bead of Nourishment
Wondrous Item, Common 
This flavorless, gelatinous bead dissolves on your 
tongue and provides as much nourishment as 1 day 
of Rations.
Belt of Dwarvenkind
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this belt, you gain the following 
benefits:
Dwarvish.  You know Dwarvish.
Friend of Dwarvenkind. You have Advantage on 
Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to interact 
with dwarves and duergar.
Toughness. Your Constitution increases by 2, to a 
maximum of 20.
In addition, while attuned to the belt, you have a 50 
percent chance each day at dawn of growing a full 
beard if you can grow one, or a thicker beard if you 
already have one.
 If you aren’t a dwarf or duergar, you gain the fol -
lowing additional benefits while wearing the belt:
Darkvision.  You have Darkvision with a range of 60 
feet.
Resilience. You have Resistance to Poison damage. 
You also have Advantage on saving throws you 
make to avoid or end the Poisoned condition.
Belt of Giant Strength
Wondrous Item, Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this belt, your Strength changes to 
a score granted by the belt. The type of giant deter -
mines the score (see the table below). The item has 
no effect on you if your Strength without the belt is 
equal to or greater than the belt’s score.
Belt Str. Rarity
Belt of Giant Strength (hill) 21 Rare
Belt of Giant Strength (frost or 
stone)
23 Very Rare
Belt of Giant Strength (fire) 25 Very Rare
Belt of Giant Strength (cloud) 27 Legendary
Belt of Giant Strength (storm) 29 Legendary
Berserker Axe
Weapon (Battleaxe, Greataxe, or Halberd), Rare 
(Requires Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. In addition, while 
you are attuned to this weapon, your Hit Point 
maximum increases by 1 for each level you have 
attained.
 Curse. This weapon is cursed, and becoming at -
tuned to it extends the curse to you. As long as you 
remain cursed, you are unwilling to part with the 
weapon, keeping it within reach at all times. You 
also have Disadvantage on attack rolls with weap -
ons other than this one.
 Whenever another creature damages you while 
the weapon is in your possession, you must succeed 
on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or go berserk. This 
berserk state ends when you start your turn and 
there are no creatures within 60 feet of you that you 
can see or hear.
 While berserk, you regard the creature nearest 
to you that you can see or hear as your enemy. If 
there are multiple possible creatures, choose one at 
random. On each of your turns, you must move as 
close to the creature as possible and take the Attack 
action, targeting the creature. If you’re unable to 
get close enough to the creature to attack it with 
the weapon, your turn ends after you’ve used up all 
your available movement. If the creature dies or can 
no longer be seen or heard by you, the next nearest 
creature that you can see or hear becomes your 
new target.
Boots of Elvenkind
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
While you wear these boots, your steps make no 
sound, regardless of the surface you are moving 
across. You also have Advantage on Dexterity 
(Stealth) checks.
Boots of Levitation
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While you wear these boots, you can cast Levitate 
on yourself.