System Reference Document 5.2.1
124
 If you, the other creature, or both would arrive in 
a space occupied by a creature or completely filled 
by one or more objects, you and any creature trav -
eling with you each take 4d6 Force damage, and the 
teleportation fails.
Disguise Self
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You make yourself—including your clothing, armor, 
weapons, and other belongings on your person—
look different until the spell ends. You can seem 
1 foot shorter or taller and can appear heavier or 
lighter. You must adopt a form that has the same 
basic arrangement of limbs as you have. Otherwise, 
the extent of the illusion is up to you.
 The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold 
up to physical inspection. For example, if you use 
this spell to add a hat to your outfit, objects pass 
through the hat, and anyone who touches it would 
feel nothing.
 To discern that you are disguised, a creature must 
take the Study action to inspect your appearance 
and succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check 
against your spell save DC.
Disintegrate
Level 6 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and dust)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a green ray at a target you can see 
within range. The target can be a creature, a non -
magical object, or a creation of magical force, such 
as the wall created by Wall of Force.
 A creature targeted by this spell makes a Dexter -
ity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 
10d6 + 40 Force damage. If this damage reduces it 
to 0 Hit Points, it and everything nonmagical it is 
wearing and carrying are disintegrated into gray 
dust. The target can be revived only by a True Res-
urrection or a Wish spell.
 This spell automatically disintegrates a Large or 
smaller nonmagical object or a creation of magical 
force. If such a target is Huge or larger, this spell 
disintegrates a 10-foot-Cube portion of it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 3d6 for each spell slot level above 6.
Dispel Evil and Good
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (powdered silver and iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, 
and Undead have Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against you. You can end the spell early by using ei -
ther of the following special functions.
 Break Enchantment.  As a Magic action, you touch 
a creature that is possessed by or has the Charmed 
or Frightened condition from one or more creatures 
of the types above. The target is no longer pos -
sessed, Charmed, or Frightened by such creatures.
 Dismissal.  As a Magic action, you target one crea-
ture you can see within 5 feet of you that has one of 
the creature types above. The target must succeed 
on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its 
home plane if it isn’t there already. If they aren’t on 
their home plane, Undead are sent to the Shadow -
fell, and Fey are sent to the Feywild.
Dispel Magic
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect 
within range. Any ongoing spell of level 3 or lower 
on the target ends. For each ongoing spell of level 4 
or higher on the target, make an ability check using 
your spellcasting ability (DC 10 plus that spell’s 
level). On a successful check, the spell ends.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You automati -
cally end a spell on the target if the spell’s level is 
equal to or less than the level of the spell slot you 
use.
Dissonant Whispers
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
One creature of your choice that you can see within 
range hears a discordant melody in its mind. The 
target makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed 
save, it takes 3d6 Psychic damage and must imme -
diately use its Reaction, if available, to move as far 
away from you as it can, using the safest route. On a 
successful save, the target takes half as much dam -
age only. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.