System Reference Document 5.2.1
242
location that has no magnetic north.) The rod also 
gives you knowledge of your approximate depth 
beneath the ground or your height above it.
 Drain Life. When you hit a creature with a melee 
attack using the rod, you can force the target to 
make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target takes an extra 4d6 Necrotic dam -
age, and you regain a number of Hit Points equal to 
half that Necrotic damage. Once used, this property 
can’t be used again until the next dawn.
 Paralyze. When you hit a creature with a melee 
attack using the rod, you can force the target to 
make a DC 17 Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target has the Paralyzed condition for 1 
minute. The target repeats the save at the end of 
each of its turns, ending the effect on a success. 
Once used, this property can’t be used again until 
the next dawn.
 Terrify. While holding the rod, you can take a 
Magic action to force each creature you can see 
within 30 feet of yourself to make a DC 17 Wisdom 
saving throw. On a failed save, a target has the 
Frightened condition for 1 minute. A Frightened 
target repeats the save at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. Once 
used, this property can’t be used again until the 
next dawn.
Rod of Resurrection
Rod, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
The rod has 5 charges. While you hold it, you can 
cast one of the following spells from it: Heal (ex-
pends 1 charge) or Resurrection (expends 5 charges).
 The rod regains 1 expended charge daily at dawn. 
If you expend the last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the 
rod disappears in a harmless burst of radiance.
Rod of Rulership
Rod, Rare (Requires Attunement)
You can take a Magic action to present the rod and 
command obedience from each creature of your 
choice that you can see within 120 feet of your -
self. Each target must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Charmed condition for 8 
hours. While Charmed in this way, the creature re -
gards you as its trusted leader. If harmed by you or 
your allies or commanded to do something contrary 
to its nature, a target ceases to be Charmed in this 
way. Once used, this property can’t be used again 
until the next dawn.
Rod of Security
Rod, Very Rare 
While holding this rod, you can take a Magic action 
to activate it. The rod then instantly transports you 
and up to 199 other willing creatures you can see 
to a demiplane. You choose the form the demiplane 
takes. It could be a tranquil garden, a cheery tavern, 
an immense palace, a tropical island, a fantastic car -
nival, or whatever else you can imagine. Regardless 
of its nature, the demiplane contains enough water 
and food to sustain its visitors, and the demiplane’s 
environment can’t harm its occupants. Everything 
else that can be interacted with there can exist 
only there. For example, a flower picked from a 
garden there disappears if it is taken outside the 
demiplane.
 For each hour spent in the demiplane, a visitor 
regains Hit Points as if it had spent 1 Hit Point Die. 
Also, creatures don’t age while there, although time 
passes normally. Visitors can remain there for up to 
200 days divided by the number of creatures pres -
ent (round down).
 When the time runs out or you take a Magic action 
to end the effect, all visitors reappear in the loca-
tion they occupied when you activated the rod or an 
unoccupied space nearest that location. Once used, 
this property can’t be used again until 10 days have 
passed.
Rope of Climbing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This 60-foot length of rope can hold up to 3,000 
pounds. While holding one end of the rope, you can 
take a Magic action to command the other end of the 
rope to animate and move toward a destination you 
choose, up to the rope’s length away from you. That 
end moves 10 feet on your turn when you first com -
mand it and 10 feet at the start of each of your sub -
sequent turns until reaching its destination or until 
you tell it to stop. You can also tell the rope to fasten 
itself securely to an object or to unfasten itself, to 
knot or unknot itself, or to coil itself for carrying.
 If you tell the rope to knot, large knots appear at 
1-foot intervals along the rope. While knotted, the 
rope shortens to a 50-foot length and grants Advan -
tage on ability checks made to climb using the rope.
 The rope has AC 20, HP 20, and Immunity to Poi -
son and Psychic damage. It regains 1 Hit Point every 
5 minutes as long as it has at least 1 Hit Point. If the 
rope drops to 0 Hit Points, it is destroyed.
Rope of Entanglement
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This rope is 30 feet long. While holding one end of 
the rope, you can take a Magic action to command 
the other end to dart forward and entangle one 
creature you can see within 20 feet of yourself. The 
target must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw or have the Restrained condition. You can re -
lease the target by letting go of your end of the rope 
(causing the rope to coil up in the target’s space) 
or by using a Bonus Action to repeat the command 
(causing the rope to coil up in your hand).