System Reference Document 5.2.1
216
head and expend 1 charge to give yourself the Invis -
ible condition for 1 hour. The effect ends early if you 
pull the hood down (no action required) or cease 
wearing the cloak.
Cloak of Protection
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class and saving 
throws while you wear this cloak.
Cloak of the Bat
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this cloak, you have Advantage on 
Dexterity (Stealth) checks. In an area of Dim Light 
or Darkness, you can grip the edges of the cloak and 
use it to gain a Fly Speed of 40 feet. If you ever fail 
to grip the cloak’s edges while flying in this way, or 
if you are no longer in Dim Light or Darkness, you 
lose this Fly Speed.
 While wearing the cloak in an area of Dim Light 
or Darkness, you can cast Polymorph on yourself, 
shape-shifting into a Bat . While in that form, you 
retain your Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma 
scores. The cloak can’t be used this way again until 
the next dawn.
Cloak of the Manta Ray
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this cloak, you can breathe underwa-
ter, and you have a Swim Speed of 60 feet.
Crystal Ball
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
While touching this crystal orb, you can cast Scrying  
(save DC 17) with it.
Crystal Ball of Mind Reading
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
While touching this crystal orb, you can cast Scrying  
(save DC 17) with it. In addition, you can cast Detect 
Thoughts (save DC 17) targeting creatures you can 
see within 30 feet of the spell’s sensor. You don’t 
need to concentrate on this Detect Thoughts  spell 
to maintain it during its duration, but it ends if the 
Scrying spell ends.
Crystal Ball of Telepathy
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
While touching this crystal orb, you can cast Scry-
ing (save DC 17) with it. In addition, you can com -
municate telepathically with creatures you can see 
within 30 feet of the spell’s sensor. You can also cast 
Suggestion (save DC 17) through the sensor on one 
of those creatures. You don’t need to concentrate on 
this Suggestion  to maintain it during its duration, 
but it ends if Scrying ends. You can’t cast Suggestion 
in this way again until the next dawn.
Crystal Ball of True Seeing
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
While touching this crystal orb, you can cast Scrying  
(save DC 17) with it. In addition, you have Truesight 
with a range of 120 feet centered on the spell’s 
sensor.
Cube of Force
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This cube is about an inch across. Each face has a 
distinct marking on it. You can press one of those 
faces, expend the number of charges required for it, 
and thereby cast the spell associated with it (save 
DC 17), as shown in the Cube of Force Faces table.
 The cube starts with 10 charges, and it regains 
1d6 expended charges daily at dawn.
Cube of Force Faces
Spell Charge Cost
Mage Armor 1
Shield 1
Tiny Hut 3
Private Sanctum 4
Resilient Sphere 4
Wall of Force 5
Cubic Gate
Wondrous Item, Legendary 
This cube is 3 inches across and radiates palpable 
magical energy. The six sides of the cube are each 
keyed to a different plane of existence, one of which 
is the Material Plane. The other sides are linked to 
planes determined by the GM.
 The cube has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. As a Magic action, you can 
expend 1 of the cube’s charges to cast one of the fol -
lowing spells using the cube.
 Gate. Pressing one side of the cube, you cast Gate, 
opening a portal to the plane of existence keyed to 
that side.
 Plane Shift. Pressing one side of the cube twice, 
you cast Plane Shift, transporting the targets to the 
plane of existence keyed to that side.
Dagger of Venom
Weapon (Dagger), Rare 
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 You can take a Bonus Action to magically coat the 
blade with poison. The poison remains for 1 minute 
or until an attack using this weapon hits a creature. 
That creature must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution 
saving throw or take 2d10 Poison damage and have 
the Poisoned condition for 1 minute. The weapon 
can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.