System Reference Document 5.2.1
182
Experience Points
As they overcome challenges and complete ad -
ventures, characters earn Experience Points (XP), 
which are awarded by the Game Master. When a 
character’s XP total crosses certain thresholds, 
the character’s level increases. See also  “Level 
Advancement.”
Expertise
Expertise is a feature that enhances your use of a 
skill proficiency. When you make an ability check 
with a skill proficiency in which you have Expertise, 
your Proficiency Bonus is doubled for that check un -
less the bonus is doubled by another feature.
 If you gain Expertise, you gain it in one skill in 
which you have proficiency. You can’t have Exper -
tise in the same skill proficiency more than once.
 See also “Playing the Game” (“Proficiency”).
Falling [Hazard]
A creature that falls takes 1d6 Bludgeoning dam -
age at the end of the fall for every 10 feet it fell, to 
a maximum of 20d6. When the creature lands, it 
has the Prone condition unless it avoids taking any 
damage from the fall.
 A creature that falls into water or another liquid 
can use its Reaction to make a DC 15 Strength (Ath -
letics) or Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to hit the 
surface head or feet first. On a successful check, any 
damage resulting from the fall is halved.
Flying
A variety of effects allow a creature to fly. While fly -
ing, you fall if you have the Incapacitated or Prone 
condition or your Fly Speed is reduced to 0. You can 
stay aloft in those circumstances if you can hover. 
See also “Falling” and “Fly Speed.”
Fly Speed
A Fly Speed can be used to travel through the air. 
While you have a Fly Speed, you can stay aloft until 
you land, fall, or die. See also  “Flying” and “Speed.”
Friendly [Attitude]
A Friendly creature views you favorably. You 
have Advantage on an ability check to influence a 
Friendly creature. See also  “Influence.”
Frightened [Condition]
While you have the Frightened condition, you expe -
rience the following effects.
 Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have 
Disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls 
while the source of fear is within line of sight.
 Can’t Approach. You can’t willingly move closer to 
the source of fear.
Grappled [Condition]
While you have the Grappled condition, you experi -
ence the following effects.
 Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can’t increase.
 Attacks Affected.  You have Disadvantage on at-
tack rolls against any target other than the grappler.
 Movable.  The grappler can drag or carry you 
when it moves, but every foot of movement costs it 1 
extra foot unless you are Tiny or two or more sizes 
smaller than it.
Grappling
A creature can grapple another creature. Charac -
ters typically grapple by using an Unarmed Strike. 
Many monsters have special attacks that allow 
them to quickly grapple prey. However a grapple is 
initiated, it follows these rules. See also  “Unarmed 
Strike” and “Grappled.”
 Grappled Condition. Successfully grappling a 
creature gives it the Grappled condition.
 One Grapple per Hand. A creature must have a 
hand free to grapple another creature. Some stat 
blocks and game effects allow a creature to grapple 
using a tentacle, a maw, or another body part. What -
ever part a grappler uses, it can grapple only one 
creature at a time with that part, and the grappler 
can’t use that part to target another creature unless 
it ends the grapple.
 Ending a Grapple. A Grappled creature can use 
its action to make a Strength (Athletics) or Dexter -
ity (Acrobatics) check against the grapple’s escape 
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success. The 
condition also ends if the grappler has the Inca-
pacitated condition or if the distance between the 
Grappled target and the grappler exceeds the grap -
ple’s range. In addition, the grappler can release the 
target at any time (no action required).
Hazard
A hazard is an environmental danger. See also  
“Burning,” “Dehydration,” “Falling,” “Malnutrition,” 
and “Suffocation.”
Healing
Healing is how you regain Hit Points. See also  “Play-
ing the Game” (“Damage and Healing”).
Heavily Obscured
You have the Blinded condition while trying to see 
something in a Heavily Obscured space. See also  
“Blinded,” “Darkness,” and “Playing the Game” 
(“Exploration”).
Help [Action]
When you take the Help action, you do one of the 
following.
 Assist an Ability Check. Choose one of your 
skill or tool proficiencies and one ally who is near 