System Reference Document 5.2.1
74
Misty Visions
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast Silent Image without expending a spell 
slot.
One with Shadows
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
While you’re in an area of Dim Light or Darkness, 
you can cast Invisibility on yourself without expend -
ing a spell slot.
Otherworldly Leap
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast Jump on yourself without expending a 
spell slot.
Pact of the Blade
As a Bonus Action, you can conjure a pact weapon 
in your hand—a Simple or Martial Melee weapon of 
your choice with which you bond—or create a bond 
with a magic weapon you touch; you can’t bond with 
a magic weapon if someone else is attuned to it or 
another Warlock is bonded with it. Until the bond 
ends, you have proficiency with the weapon, and 
you can use it as a Spellcasting Focus.
 Whenever you attack with the bonded weapon, 
you can use your Charisma modifier for the attack 
and damage rolls instead of using Strength or 
Dexterity; and you can cause the weapon to deal 
Necrotic, Psychic, or Radiant damage or its normal 
damage type.
 Your bond with the weapon ends if you use this 
feature’s Bonus Action again, if the weapon is more 
than 5 feet away from you for 1 minute or more, or 
if you die. A conjured weapon disappears when the 
bond ends.
Pact of the Chain
You learn the Find Familiar spell and can cast it as a 
Magic action without expending a spell slot.
 When you cast the spell, you choose one of the 
normal forms for your familiar or one of the follow -
ing special forms: Imp, Pseudodragon, Quasit, 
Skeleton, Sphinx of Wonder, Sprite, or Venomous 
Snake (see “Monsters” for the familiar’s stat block).
 Additionally, when you take the Attack action, 
you can forgo one of your own attacks to allow 
your familiar to make one attack of its own with its 
Reaction.
Pact of the Tome
Stitching together strands of shadow, you conjure 
forth a book in your hand at the end of a Short or 
Long Rest. This Book of Shadows  (you determine its 
appearance) contains eldritch magic that only you 
can access, granting you the benefits below. The 
book disappears if you conjure another book with 
this feature or if you die.
 Cantrips and Rituals.  When the book appears, 
choose three cantrips, and choose two level 1 spells 
that have the Ritual tag. The spells can be from any 
class’s spell list, and they must be spells you don’t 
already have prepared. While the book is on your 
person, you have the chosen spells prepared, and 
they function as Warlock spells for you.
 Spellcasting Focus. You can use the book as a 
Spellcasting Focus.
Repelling Blast
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip 
That Deals Damage via an Attack Roll
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that 
requires an attack roll. When you hit a Large or 
smaller creature with that cantrip, you can push the 
creature up to 10 feet straight away from you.
 Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
eligible cantrip.
Thirsting Blade
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade 
Invocation
You gain the Extra Attack feature for your pact 
weapon only. With that feature, you can attack 
twice with the weapon instead of once when you 
take the Attack action on your turn.
Visions of Distant Realms
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock 
You can cast Arcane Eye without expending a spell 
slot.
Whispers of the Grave
Prerequisite: Level 7+ Warlock
You can cast Speak with Dead without expending a 
spell slot.
Witch Sight
Prerequisite: Level 15+ Warlock
You have Truesight with a range of 30 feet.
Warlock Spell List
This section presents the Warlock spell list. The 
spells are organized by spell level and then alpha-
betized, and each spell’s school of magic is listed. 
In the Special column, C means the spell requires 
Concentration, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it 
requires a specific Material component.