System Reference Document 5.2.1
43
 Rules While Shape-Shifted. While in a form, you 
retain your personality, memories, and ability to 
speak, and the following rules apply:
Temporary Hit Points.  When you assume a Wild 
Shape form, you gain a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to your Druid level.
Game Statistics.  Your game statistics are replaced 
by the Beast’s stat block, but you retain your crea-
ture type; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma scores; class features; 
languages; and feats. You also retain your skill 
and saving throw proficiencies and use your Pro -
ficiency Bonus for them, in addition to gaining the 
proficiencies of the creature. If a skill or saving 
throw modifier in the Beast’s stat block is higher 
than yours, use the one in the stat block.
No Spellcasting.  You can’t cast spells, but shape- 
shifting doesn’t break your Concentration or oth -
erwise interfere with a spell you’ve already cast.
Objects. Your ability to handle objects is deter -
mined by the form’s limbs rather than your own. 
In addition, you choose whether your equipment 
falls in your space, merges into your new form, or 
is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as nor -
mal, but the GM decides whether it’s practical for 
the new form to wear a piece of equipment based 
on the creature’s size and shape. Your equipment 
doesn’t change size or shape to match the new 
form, and any equipment that the new form can’t 
wear must either fall to the ground or merge with 
the form. Equipment that merges with the form 
has no effect while you’re in that form.
Level 2: Wild Companion
You can summon a nature spirit that assumes an 
animal form to aid you. As a Magic action, you can 
expend a spell slot or a use of Wild Shape to cast the 
Find Familiar spell without Material components.
 When you cast the spell in this way, the familiar is 
Fey and disappears when you finish a Long Rest.
Level 3: Druid Subclass
You gain a Druid subclass of your choice. The Circle 
of the Land subclass is detailed after this class’s de -
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Druid levels. For the rest of 
your career, you gain each of your subclass’s fea-
tures that are of your Druid level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Druid levels 8, 
12, and 16.
Level 5: Wild Resurgence
Once on each of your turns, if you have no uses of 
Wild Shape left, you can give yourself one use by ex -
pending a spell slot (no action required).
 In addition, you can expend one use of Wild Shape 
(no action required) to give yourself a level 1 spell 
slot, but you can’t do so again until you finish a Long 
Rest.
Level 7: Elemental Fury
The might of the elements flows through you. You 
gain one of the following options of your choice.
 Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier 
to the damage you deal with any Druid cantrip.
 Primal Strike. Once on each of your turns when 
you hit a creature with an attack roll using a 
weapon or a Beast form’s attack in Wild Shape, you 
can cause the target to take an extra 1d8 Cold, Fire, 
Lightning, or Thunder damage (choose when you 
hit).
Level 15: Improved Elemental Fury
The option you chose for Elemental Fury grows 
more powerful, as detailed below.
 Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Druid can -
trip with a range of 10 feet or greater, the spell’s 
range increases by 300 feet.
 Primal Strike. The extra damage of your Primal 
Strike increases to 2d8.
Level 18: Beast Spells
While using Wild Shape, you can cast spells in Beast 
form, except for any spell that has a Material com -
ponent with a cost specified or that consumes its 
Material component.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Di -
mensional Travel is recommended.
Level 20: Archdruid
The vitality of nature constantly blooms within you, 
granting you the following benefits.
 Evergreen Wild Shape. Whenever you roll Initia -
tive and have no uses of Wild Shape left, you regain 
one expended use of it.
 Nature Magician. You can convert uses of Wild 
Shape into a spell slot (no action required). Choose 
a number of your unexpended uses of Wild Shape 
and convert them into a single spell slot, with each 
use contributing 2 spell levels. For example, if you 
convert two uses of Wild Shape, you produce a level 
4 spell slot. Once you use this benefit, you can’t do 
so again until you finish a Long Rest.
 Longevity.  The primal magic that you wield 
causes you to age more slowly. For every ten years 
that pass, your body ages only one year.