System Reference Document 5.2.1
97
Chest (5 GP)
A Chest holds up to 12 cubic feet of contents.
Climber’s Kit (25 GP)
A Climber’s Kit includes boot tips, gloves, pitons, 
and a harness. As a Utilize action, you can use the 
Climber’s Kit to anchor yourself; when you do, you 
can’t fall more than 25 feet from the anchor point, 
and you can’t move more than 25 feet from there 
without undoing the anchor as a Bonus Action.
Clothes, Fine (15 GP)
Fine Clothes are made of expensive fabrics and 
adorned with expertly crafted details. Some events 
and locations admit only people wearing these 
clothes.
Clothes, Traveler’s (2 GP)
Traveler’s Clothes are resilient garments designed 
for travel in various environments.
Component Pouch (25 GP)
A Component Pouch is watertight and filled with 
compartments that hold all the free Material com -
ponents of your spells.
Costume (5 GP)
While wearing a Costume, you have Advantage on 
any ability check you make to impersonate the per -
son or type of person it represents.
Crowbar (2 GP)
Using a Crowbar gives you Advantage on Strength 
checks where the Crowbar’s leverage can be 
applied.
Diplomat’s Pack (39 GP)
A Diplomat’s Pack contains the following items: 
Chest, Fine Clothes, Ink, 5 Ink Pens, Lamp, 2 Map 
or Scroll Cases, 4 flasks of Oil, 5 sheets of Paper, 5 
sheets of Parchment, Perfume, and Tinderbox.
Druidic Focus (Varies)
A Druidic Focus takes one of the forms in the Dru -
idic Focuses table and is carved, tied with ribbon, or 
painted to channel primal magic. A Druid or Ranger 
can use such an object as a Spellcasting Focus.
Druidic Focuses
Focus Weight Cost
Sprig of mistletoe — 1 GP
Wooden staff (also a Quarterstaff) 4 lb. 5 GP
Yew wand 1 lb. 10 GP
Dungeoneer’s Pack (12 GP)
A Dungeoneer’s Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Caltrops, Crowbar, 2 flasks of Oil, 10 
days of Rations, Rope, Tinderbox, 10 Torches, and 
Waterskin.
Entertainer’s Pack (40 GP)
An Entertainer’s Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Bedroll, Bell, Bullseye Lantern, 3 Cos -
tumes, Mirror, 8 flasks of Oil, 9 days of Rations, Tin -
derbox, and Waterskin.
Explorer’s Pack (10 GP)
An Explorer’s Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Bedroll, 2 flasks of Oil, 10 days of Ra-
tions, Rope, Tinderbox, 10 Torches, and Waterskin.
Flask (2 CP)
A Flask holds up to 1 pint.
Grappling Hook (2 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can throw the Grappling 
Hook at a railing, a ledge, or another catch within 50 
feet of yourself, and the hook catches on if you suc -
ceed on a DC 13 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. If you 
tied a Rope to the hook, you can then climb it.
Healer’s Kit (5 GP)
A Healer’s Kit has ten uses. As a Utilize action, you 
can expend one of its uses to stabilize an Uncon -
scious creature that has 0 Hit Points without need -
ing to make a Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Holy Symbol (Varies)
A Holy Symbol takes one of the forms in the Holy 
Symbol table and is bejeweled or painted to chan -
nel divine magic. A Cleric or Paladin can use a Holy 
Symbol as a Spellcasting Focus.
 The table indicates whether a Holy Symbol needs 
to be held, worn, or borne on fabric (such as a tab -
ard or banner) or a Shield.
Holy Symbols
Symbol Weight Cost
Amulet (worn or held) 1 lb. 5 GP
Emblem (borne on fabric or a Shield) — 5 GP
Reliquary (held) 2 lb. 5 GP
Holy Water (25 GP)
When you take the Attack action, you can replace 
one of your attacks with throwing a flask of Holy 
Water. Target one creature you can see within 20 
feet of yourself. The target must succeed on a Dex -
terity saving throw (DC 8 plus your Dexterity mod -
ifier and Proficiency Bonus) or take 2d8 Radiant 
damage if it is a Fiend or an Undead.
Hunting Trap (5 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can set a Hunting Trap, 
which is a sawtooth steel ring that snaps shut when 
a creature steps on a pressure plate in the center. 