System Reference Document 5.2.1
234
duplicating the effect of the Grease  spell in that area 
for 8 hours.
 This sticky, black unguent is thick and heavy, but 
it flows quickly when poured. 
Pearl of Power
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement by 
a Spellcaster)
While this pearl is on your person, you can take a 
Magic action to regain one expended spell slot of 
level 3 or lower. Once you use the pearl, it can’t be 
used again until the next dawn.
Periapt of Health
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this pendant, you can take a Magic 
action to regain 2d4 + 2 Hit Points. Once used, this 
property can’t be used again until the next dawn.
 In addition, you have Advantage on saving throws 
to avoid or end the Poisoned condition while you 
wear this pendant.
Periapt of Proof against Poison
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This delicate silver chain has a brilliant-cut black 
gem pendant. While you wear it, you have Immunity 
to the Poisoned condition and Poison damage.
Periapt of Wound Closure
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this pendant, you gain the following 
benefits.
 Life Preservation. Whenever you make a Death 
Saving Throw, you can change a roll of 9 or lower to 
a 10, turning a failed save into a successful one.
 Natural Healing Boost.  Whenever you roll a Hit 
Point Die to regain Hit Points, double the number of 
Hit Points it restores.
Philter of Love
Potion, Uncommon 
The next time you see a creature within 10 minutes 
after drinking this philter, you are charmed by that 
creature and have the Charmed condition for 1 
hour.
 This rose-hued, effervescent liquid contains one 
easy-to-miss bubble shaped like a heart.
Pipes of Haunting
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
These pipes have 3 charges and regain 1d3 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. You can take a Magic 
action to play them and expend 1 charge to create 
an eerie, spellbinding tune. Each creature of your 
choice within 30 feet of you must succeed on a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or have the Frightened 
condition for 1 minute. A creature that fails the save 
repeats it at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success. A creature that suc -
ceeds on its save is immune to the effect of these 
pipes for 24 hours.
Pipes of the Sewers
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While these pipes are on your person, ordinary rats 
and giant rats are Indifferent toward you and won’t 
attack you unless you threaten or harm them.
 The pipes have 3 charges and regain 1d3 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. If you play the pipes 
as a Magic action, you can take a Bonus Action to 
expend 1 to 3 charges, calling forth one Swarm 
of Rats with each expended charge if enough rats 
are within half a mile of you to be called in this 
fashion (as determined by the GM). If there aren’t 
enough rats to form a swarm, the charge is wasted. 
Called swarms move toward the music by the short -
est available route but aren’t under your control 
otherwise.
 Whenever a Swarm of Rats  that isn’t under an-
other creature’s control comes within 30 feet of you 
while you are playing the pipes, the swarm makes 
a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a successful 
save, the swarm behaves as it normally would and 
can’t be swayed by the pipes’ music for the next 24 
hours. On a failed save, the swarm is swayed by the 
pipes’ music and becomes Friendly to you and your 
allies for as long as you continue to play the pipes 
each round as a Magic action. A Friendly swarm 
obeys your commands. If you issue no commands 
to a Friendly swarm, it defends itself but otherwise 
takes no actions. If a Friendly swarm starts its turn 
more than 30 feet away from you, your control over 
that swarm ends, and the swarm behaves as it nor -
mally would and can’t be swayed by the pipes’ mu -
sic for the next 24 hours.
Plate Armor of Etherealness
Armor (Half Plate Armor or Plate Armor), Legendary 
(Requires Attunement)
While you’re wearing this armor, you can take a 
Magic action and use a command word to gain the 
effect of the Etherealness  spell. The spell ends imme -
diately if you remove the armor or take a Magic ac -
tion to repeat the command word. This property of 
the armor can’t be used again until the next dawn.
Portable Hole
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This fine black cloth, soft as silk, is folded up to the 
dimensions of a handkerchief. It unfolds into a cir -
cular sheet 6 feet in diameter.
 You can take a Magic action to unfold a Por -
table Hole and place it on or against a solid sur -
face, whereupon the Portable Hole creates an 