System Reference Document 5.2.1
166
 Turn 4. Hailstones rain down. Each creature un -
der the cloud takes 2d6 Bludgeoning damage.
 Turns 5–10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the 
area under the cloud. Each creature there takes 1d6 
Cold damage. Until the spell ends, the area is Diffi -
cult Terrain and Heavily Obscured, ranged attacks 
with weapons are impossible there, and strong 
wind blows through the area.
Suggestion
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, M (a drop of honey)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You suggest a course of activity—described in no 
more than 25 words—to one creature you can see 
within range that can hear and understand you. 
The suggestion must sound achievable and not in -
volve anything that would obviously deal damage 
to the target or its allies. For example, you could 
say, “Fetch the key to the cult’s treasure vault, and 
give the key to me.” Or you could say, “Stop fighting, 
leave this library peacefully, and don’t return.”
 The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura -
tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the 
target. The Charmed target pursues the suggestion 
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity 
can continue for the entire duration, but if the sug -
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time, 
the spell ends for the target upon completing it.
Summon Dragon
Level 5 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (an object with the image of a 
dragon engraved on it worth 500+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You call forth a Dragon spirit. It manifests in an un -
occupied space that you can see within range and 
uses the Draconic Spirit  stat block. The creature 
disappears when it drops to 0 Hit Points or when 
the spell ends.
 The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It 
obeys your verbal commands (no action required by 
you). If you don’t issue any, it takes the Dodge action 
and uses its movement to avoid danger.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell 
slot’s level for the spell’s level in the stat block.
Draconic Spirit
Large Dragon, Neutral
AC 14 + the spell’s level
HP 50 + 10 for each spell level above 5
Speed 30 ft., Fly 60 ft., Swim 30 ft.
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
Str 19 +4 +4     dex 14 +2 +2 con 17 +3 +3
int 10 +0 +0 WiS 14 +2 +2 chA 14 +2 +2
Resistances Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison
Immunities Charmed, Frightened, Poisoned
Senses Blindsight 30 ft., Darkvision 60 ft.; 
Passive Perception 12
Languages Draconic, understands the languages you know 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
Traits
Shared Resistances. When you summon the spirit, 
choose one of its Resistances. You have Resistance to 
the chosen damage type until the spell ends.
Actions
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of Rend attacks 
equal to half the spell’s level (round down), and it uses 
Breath Weapon.
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 10 feet. Hit: 1d6 + 4 + the spell’s level 
Piercing damage.
Breath Weapon. Dexterity Saving Throw: DC equals 
your spell save DC, each creature in a 30-foot Cone. 
Failure: 2d6 damage of a type this spirit has Resistance 
to (your choice when you cast the spell). Success: 
Half damage.
Sunbeam
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a magnifying glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You launch a sunbeam in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long 
Line. Each creature in the Line makes a Constitution 
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 6d8 
Radiant damage and has the Blinded condition until 
the start of your next turn. On a successful save, it 
takes half as much damage only.
 Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to 
create a new Line of radiance.
 For the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance 
shines above you. It sheds Bright Light in a 30-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. This 
light is sunlight.