System Reference Document 5.2.1
223
Flame Tongue
Weapon (Any Melee Weapon), Rare (Requires 
Attunement)
While holding this magic weapon, you can take a 
Bonus Action and use a command word to cause 
flames to engulf the damage-dealing part of the 
weapon. These flames shed Bright Light in a 40-
foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 40 feet. 
While the weapon is ablaze, it deals an extra 2d6 
Fire damage on a hit. The flames last until you take 
a Bonus Action to issue the command again or until 
you drop, stow, or sheathe the weapon.
Folding Boat
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This object appears as a wooden box that measures 
12 inches long, 6 inches wide, and 6 inches deep. 
It weighs 4 pounds and floats. It can be opened to 
store items inside. This item also has three com -
mand words, each requiring a Magic action to use:
First Command Word.  The box unfolds into a 
Rowboat.
Second Command Word. The box unfolds into a 
Keelboat.
Third Command Word.  The Folding Boat folds back 
into a box if no creatures are aboard. Any objects 
in the vessel that can’t fit inside the box remain 
outside the box as it folds. Any objects in the ves -
sel that can fit inside the box do so.
When the box becomes a vessel, its weight becomes 
that of a normal vessel its size, and anything that 
was stored in the box remains in the boat.
 Statistics for the Rowboat and Keelboat appear 
in “Equipment.” If either vessel is reduced to 0 Hit 
Points, the Folding Boat is destroyed.
Frost Brand
Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, Rapier, 
Scimitar, or Shortsword), Very Rare (Requires 
Attunement)
When you hit with an attack roll using this magic 
weapon, the target takes an extra 1d6 Cold damage. 
In addition, while you hold the weapon, you have 
Resistance to Fire damage.
 In freezing temperatures, the weapon sheds 
Bright Light in a 10-foot radius and Dim Light for an 
additional 10 feet.
 When you draw this weapon, you can extinguish 
all nonmagical flames within 30 feet of yourself. 
Once used, this property can’t be used again for 
1 hour.
Gauntlets of Ogre Power
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
Your Strength is 19 while you wear these gauntlets. 
They have no effect on you if your Strength is 19 or 
higher without them.
Gem of Brightness
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This prism has 50 charges. While you are holding 
it, you can take a Magic action and use one of three 
command words to cause one of the following 
effects:
First Command Word.  The gem sheds Bright Light 
in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 
30 feet. This effect doesn’t expend a charge. It 
lasts until you take a Bonus Action to repeat the 
command word or until you use another function 
of the gem.
Second Command Word. You expend 1 charge and 
cause the gem to fire a brilliant beam of light at 
one creature you can see within 60 feet of your -
self. The creature must succeed on a DC 15 Consti -
tution saving throw or have the Blinded condition 
for 1 minute. The creature repeats the save at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself 
on a success.
Third Command Word.  You expend 5 charges and 
cause the gem to flare with intense light in a 30-
foot Cone. Each creature in the Cone makes a sav -
ing throw as if struck by the beam created with 
the second command word.
When all of the gem’s charges are expended, the 
gem becomes a nonmagical jewel worth 50 GP.
Gem of Seeing
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This gem has 3 charges. As a Magic action, you can 
expend 1 charge. For the next 10 minutes, you have 
Truesight out to 120 feet when you peer through the 
gem.
 The gem regains 1d3 expended charges daily at 
dawn.
Giant Slayer
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Rare 
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 When you hit a Giant with this weapon, the Giant 
takes an extra 2d6 damage of the weapon’s type and 
must succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or 
have the Prone condition.
Glamoured Studded Leather
Armor (Studded Leather Armor), Rare 
While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to 
Armor Class. You can also take a Bonus Action to 