System Reference Document 5.2.1
73
plus another 1d8 per level of the spell slot, and you 
can give the target the Prone condition if it is Huge 
or smaller.
Eldritch Spear
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip 
That Deals Damage
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that 
deals damage and has a range of 10+ feet. When you 
cast that spell, its range increases by a number of 
feet equal to 30 times your Warlock level.
 Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
eligible cantrip.
Fiendish Vigor
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast False Life on yourself without expend -
ing a spell slot. When you cast the spell with this 
feature, you don’t roll the die for the Temporary Hit 
Points; you automatically get the highest number on 
the die.
Gaze of Two Minds
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can use a Bonus Action to touch a willing crea-
ture and perceive through its senses until the end 
of your next turn. As long as the creature is on the 
same plane of existence as you, you can take a Bo -
nus Action on subsequent turns to maintain this 
connection, extending the duration until the end 
of your next turn. The connection ends if you don’t 
maintain it in this way.
 While perceiving through the other creature’s 
senses, you benefit from any special senses pos -
sessed by that creature, and you can cast spells as if 
you were in your space or the other creature’s space 
if the two of you are within 60 feet of each other.
Gift of the Depths
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can breathe underwater, and you gain a Swim 
Speed equal to your Speed.
 You can also cast Water Breathing once without 
expending a spell slot. You regain the ability to cast 
it in this way again when you finish a Long Rest.
Gift of the Protectors
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock, Pact of the Tome 
Invocation
A new page appears in your Book of Shadows  when 
you conjure it. With your permission, a creature can 
take an action to write its name on that page, which 
can contain a number of names equal to your Cha-
risma modifier (minimum of one name).
 When any creature whose name is on the page is 
reduced to 0 Hit Points but not killed outright, the 
creature magically drops to 1 Hit Point instead. 
Once this magic is triggered, no creature can benefit 
from it until you finish a Long Rest.
 As a Magic action, you can erase a name on the 
page by touching it.
Investment of the Chain Master
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Chain 
Invocation
When you cast Find Familiar, you infuse the sum -
moned familiar with a measure of your eldritch 
power, granting the creature the following benefits.
 Aerial or Aquatic. The familiar gains either a Fly 
Speed or a Swim Speed (your choice) of 40 feet.
 Quick Attack. As a Bonus Action, you can com -
mand the familiar to take the Attack action.
 Necrotic or Radiant Damage. Whenever the 
familiar deals Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing 
damage, you can make it deal Necrotic or Radiant 
damage instead.
 Your Save DC. If the familiar forces a creature to 
make a saving throw, it uses your spell save DC.
 Resistance.  When the familiar takes damage, you 
can take a Reaction to grant it Resistance against 
that damage.
Lessons of the First Ones
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You have received knowledge from an elder entity 
of the multiverse, allowing you to gain one Origin 
feat of your choice (see “Feats”).
 Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
Origin feat.
Lifedrinker
Prerequisite: Level 9+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade 
Invocation
Once per turn when you hit a creature with your 
pact weapon, you can deal an extra 1d6 Necrotic, 
Psychic, or Radiant damage (your choice) to the 
creature, and you can expend one of your Hit Point 
Dice to roll it and regain a number of Hit Points 
equal to the roll plus your Constitution modifier 
(minimum of 1 Hit Point).
Mask of Many Faces
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can cast Disguise Self without expending a spell 
slot.
Master of Myriad Forms
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can cast Alter Self without expending a spell 
slot.