System Reference Document 5.2.1
180
Cylinder [Area of Effect]
A Cylinder is an area of effect that extends in 
straight lines from a point of origin located at the 
center of the circular top or bottom of the Cylinder. 
The effect that creates a Cylinder specifies the ra-
dius of the Cylinder’s base and the Cylinder’s height.
 A Cylinder’s point of origin is included in the area 
of effect.
D20 Test
D20 Tests encompass the three main d20 rolls of 
the game: ability checks, attack rolls, and saving 
throws. If something in the game affects D20 Tests, 
it affects all three of these rolls. The GM determines 
whether a D20 Test is warranted in a given circum -
stance. See also  “Playing the Game” (“D20 Tests”).
Damage
Damage represents harm that causes a creature or 
an object to lose Hit Points.
Damage Roll
A damage roll is a die roll, adjusted by any applica-
ble modifiers, that deals damage to a target. See also  
“Playing the Game” (“Damage and Healing”).
Damage Threshold
A creature or an object that has a damage thresh -
old has Immunity to all damage unless it takes an 
amount of damage from a single attack or effect 
equal to or greater than its damage threshold, in 
which case it takes that entire instance of dam -
age. Any damage that fails to meet or exceed the 
damage threshold is superficial and doesn’t reduce 
Hit Points. For example, if an object has a damage 
threshold of 10, the object takes no damage if 9 
damage is dealt to it, since that damage fails to 
exceed the threshold. If the same object is dealt 11 
damage, it takes all of that damage.
Damage Types
Attacks and other harmful effects deal different 
types of damage. Damage types have no rules of 
their own, but other rules, such as Resistance, rely 
on the types. The Damage Types table offers exam -
ples to help a GM assign a type to a new effect.
Damage Types
Type Examples
Acid Corrosive liquids, digestive enzymes
Bludgeoning Blunt objects, constriction, falling
Cold Freezing water, icy blasts
Fire Flames, unbearable heat
Force Pure magical energy
Lightning Electricity
Type Examples
Necrotic Life-draining energy
Piercing Fangs, puncturing objects
Poison Toxic gas, venom
Psychic Mind-rending energy
Radiant Holy energy, searing radiation
Slashing Claws, cutting objects
Thunder Concussive sound
Darkness
An area of Darkness is Heavily Obscured. See 
also “Heavily Obscured” and “Playing the Game” 
(“Exploration”).
Darkvision
If you have Darkvision, you can see in Dim Light 
within a specified range as if it were Bright Light 
and in Darkness within that range as if it were 
Dim Light. You discern colors in that Darkness 
only as shades of gray. See also  “Playing the Game” 
(“Exploration”).
Dash [Action]
When you take the Dash action, you gain extra 
movement for the current turn. The increase equals 
your Speed after applying any modifiers. With a 
Speed of 30 feet, for example, you can move up to 
60 feet on your turn if you Dash. If your Speed of 30 
feet is reduced to 15 feet, you can move up to 30 feet 
this turn if you Dash.
 If you have a special speed, such as a Fly Speed or 
Swim Speed, you can use that speed instead of your 
Speed when you take this action. You choose which 
speed to use each time you take it. See also  “Speed.”
Dead
A dead creature has no Hit Points and can’t regain 
them unless it is first revived by magic such as the 
Raise Dead or Revivify spell. When such a spell is 
cast, the spirit knows who is casting it and can re -
fuse. The spirit of a dead creature has left the body 
and departed for the Outer Planes, and reviving the 
creature requires calling the spirit back. 
 If the creature returns to life, the revival effect 
determines the creature’s current Hit Points. Un -
less otherwise stated, the creature returns to life 
with any conditions, magical contagions, or curses 
that were affecting it at death if the durations of 
those effects are still ongoing. If the creature died 
with any Exhaustion levels, it returns with 1 fewer 
level. If the creature had Attunement to one or more 
magic items, it is no longer attuned to them.