System Reference Document 5.2.1
146
• Targets within the Cylinder can’t be possessed 
by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condition 
from the creature.
 Each time you cast this spell, you can cause its 
magic to operate in the reverse direction, prevent -
ing a creature of the specified type from leaving the 
Cylinder and protecting targets outside it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration in-
creases by 1 hour for each spell slot level above 3.
Magic Jar
Level 6 Necromancy (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem, crystal, or reliquary worth 
500+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soul 
leaves it and enters the container you used for the 
spell’s Material component. While your soul inhab -
its the container, you are aware of your surround -
ings as if you were in the container’s space. You 
can’t move or take Reactions. The only action you 
can take is to project your soul up to 100 feet out of 
the container, either returning to your living body 
(and ending the spell) or attempting to possess a 
Humanoid’s body.
 You can attempt to possess any Humanoid within 
100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded 
by a Protection from Evil and Good or Magic Circle  
spell can’t be possessed). The target makes a Cha-
risma saving throw. On a failed save, your soul en -
ters the target’s body, and the target’s soul becomes 
trapped in the container. On a successful save, the 
target resists your efforts to possess it, and you 
can’t attempt to possess it again for 24 hours.
 Once you possess a creature’s body, you control it. 
Your Hit Points, Hit Point Dice, Strength, Dexterity, 
Constitution, Speed, and senses are replaced by the 
creature’s. You otherwise keep your game statistics.
 Meanwhile, the possessed creature’s soul can per -
ceive from the container using its own senses, but it 
can’t move and it is Incapacitated.
 While possessing a body, you can take a Magic ac -
tion to return from the host body to the container if 
it is within 100 feet of you, returning the host crea-
ture’s soul to its body. If the host body dies while 
you’re in it, the creature dies, and you make a Cha-
risma saving throw against your own spellcasting 
DC. On a success, you return to the container if it is 
within 100 feet of you. Otherwise, you die.
 If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, 
your soul returns to your body. If your body is more 
than 100 feet away from you or if your body is dead, 
you die. If another creature’s soul is in the container 
when it is destroyed, the creature’s soul returns to 
its body if the body is alive and within 100 feet. Oth -
erwise, that creature dies.
 When the spell ends, the container is destroyed.
Magic Missile
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create three glowing darts of magical force. 
Each dart strikes a creature of your choice that you 
can see within range. A dart deals 1d4 + 1 Force 
damage to its target. The darts all strike simultane -
ously, and you can direct them to hit one creature or 
several.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell creates 
one more dart for each spell slot level above 1.
Magic Mouth
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (jade dust worth 10+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You implant a message within an object in range—a 
message that is uttered when a trigger condition is 
met. Choose an object that you can see and that isn’t 
being worn or carried by another creature. Then 
speak the message, which must be 25 words or 
fewer, though it can be delivered over as long as 10 
minutes. Finally, determine the circumstance that 
will trigger the spell to deliver your message.
 When that trigger occurs, a magical mouth ap -
pears on the object and recites the message in your 
voice and at the same volume you spoke. If the ob -
ject you chose has a mouth or something that looks 
like a mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), 
the magical mouth appears there, so the words 
appear to come from the object’s mouth. When you 
cast this spell, you can have the spell end after it 
delivers its message, or it can remain and repeat its 
message whenever the trigger occurs.
 The trigger can be as general or as detailed as you 
like, though it must be based on visual or audible 
conditions that occur within 30 feet of the object. 
For example, you could instruct the mouth to speak 
when any creature moves within 30 feet of the ob -
ject or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
Magic Weapon
Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch