System Reference Document 5.2.1
243
 A target Restrained by the rope can take an action 
to make its choice of a DC 15 Strength (Athletics) or 
Dexterity (Acrobatics) check. On a successful check, 
the target is no longer Restrained by the rope. If 
you’re still holding onto the rope when a target es -
capes from it, you can take a Reaction to command 
the rope to coil up in your hand; otherwise, the rope 
coils up in the target’s space. 
 The rope has AC 20, HP 20, and Immunity to Poi -
son and Psychic damage. It regains 1 Hit Point every 
5 minutes as long as it has at least 1 Hit Point. If the 
rope drops to 0 Hit Points, it is destroyed.
Scarab of Protection
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
This beetle-shaped medallion provides three bene -
fits while it is on your person.
 Defense. You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class.
 Preservation.  The scarab has 12 charges. If you 
fail a saving throw against a Necromancy spell or 
a harmful effect originating from an Undead, you 
can take a Reaction to expend 1 charge and turn the 
failed save into a successful one. The scarab crum -
bles into powder and is destroyed when its last 
charge is expended.
 Spell Resistance.  You have Advantage on saving 
throws against spells.
Scimitar of Speed
Weapon (Scimitar), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. In addition, you can 
make one attack with it as a Bonus Action on each of 
your turns.
Sending Stones
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
Sending Stones come in pairs, with each stone 
carved to match the other so the pairing is easily 
recognized. While you touch one stone, you can cast 
Sending from it. The target is the bearer of the other 
stone. If no creature bears the other stone, you 
know that fact as soon as you use the stone, and you 
don’t cast the spell.
 Once Sending is cast using either stone, the stones 
can’t be used again until the next dawn. If one of the 
stones in a pair is destroyed, the other one becomes 
nonmagical.
Sentinel Shield
Armor (Shield), Uncommon 
While holding this Shield, you have Advantage on 
Initiative rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks. 
The Shield is emblazoned with a symbol of an eye.
Shield, +1, +2, or +3
Armor (Shield), Uncommon (+1), Rare (+2), or Very 
Rare (+3) 
While holding this Shield, you have a bonus to Ar -
mor Class determined by the Shield’s rarity, in addi -
tion to the Shield’s normal bonus to AC.
Shield of Missile Attraction
Armor (Shield), Rare (Requires Attunement)
While holding this Shield, you have Resistance to 
damage from attacks made with Ranged weapons.
 Curse. This Shield is cursed. Attuning to it curses 
you until you are targeted by a Remove Curse spell 
or similar magic. Removing the Shield fails to 
end the curse on you. Whenever an attack with a 
Ranged weapon targets a creature within 10 feet 
of you, the curse causes you to become the target 
instead.
Shield of the Cavalier
Armor (Shield), Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
While holding this Shield, you have a +2 bonus to 
Armor Class. This bonus is in addition to the Shield’s 
normal bonus to AC.
 The Shield has the following additional properties 
that you can use while holding it.
 Forceful Bash. When you take the Attack action, 
you can make one of the attack rolls using the Shield 
against a target within 5 feet of yourself. Apply your 
Proficiency Bonus and Strength modifier to the at -
tack roll. On a hit, the Shield deals Force damage to 
the target equal to 2d6 + 2 plus your Strength mod -
ifier, and if the target is a creature, you can push 
it up to 10 feet directly away from yourself. If the 
creature is your size or smaller, you can also knock 
it down, giving it the Prone condition.
 Protective Field. As a Reaction, when you or an 
ally you can see within 5 feet of you is targeted by 
an attack or makes a saving throw against an area 
of effect, you can use the Shield to create an immo -
bile 5-foot Emanation originating from you. When 
the Emanation appears, any creatures or objects not 
fully contained within it are pushed into the nearest 
unoccupied spaces outside it. The attack or area of 
effect that triggered the Reaction has no effect on 
creatures and objects inside the Emanation, which 
lasts as long as you maintain Concentration, up to 1 
minute. Nothing can pass into or out of the Emana-
tion. A creature or object inside the Emanation can’t 
be damaged by attacks or effects originating from 
outside, nor can a creature inside the Emanation 
damage anything outside it. Once this property is 
used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn.