System Reference Document 5.2.1
227
Horseshoes of Speed
Wondrous Item, Rare 
These horseshoes come in a set of four. As a Magic 
action, you can touch one of the horseshoes to the 
hoof of a horse or similar creature, whereupon the 
horseshoe affixes itself to the hoof. Removing a 
horseshoe also takes a Magic action.
 While all four horseshoes are attached to the 
same creature, its Speed is increased by 30 feet.
Immovable Rod
Rod, Uncommon 
This iron rod has a button on one end. You can take 
a Utilize action to press the button, which causes 
the rod to become magically fixed in place. Until you 
or another creature takes a Utilize action to push 
the button again, the rod doesn’t move, even if it 
defies gravity. The rod can hold up to 8,000 pounds 
of weight. More weight causes the rod to deactivate 
and fall. A creature can take a Utilize action to make 
a DC 30 Strength (Athletics) check, moving the fixed 
rod up to 10 feet on a successful check.
Instant Fortress
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
As a Magic action, you can place this 1-inch 
adamantine statuette on the ground and, using 
a command word, cause it to grow rapidly into a 
square adamantine tower. Repeating the command 
word causes the tower to revert to statuette form, 
which works only if the tower is empty. Each crea-
ture in the area where the tower appears is pushed 
to an unoccupied space outside but next to the 
tower. Objects in the area that aren’t being worn or 
carried are also pushed clear of the tower.
 The tower is 20 feet on a side and 30 feet high, 
with arrow slits on all sides and a battlement atop 
it. Its interior is divided into two floors, with a lad -
der, staircase, or ramp (your choice) connecting 
them. This ladder, staircase, or ramp ends at a trap -
door leading to the roof. When created, the tower 
has a single door at ground level on the side facing 
you. The door opens only at your command, which 
you can issue as a Bonus Action. It is immune to the 
Knock spell and similar magic.
 Magic prevents the tower from being tipped over. 
The roof, the door, and the walls each have AC 20; 
HP 100; Immunity to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and 
Slashing damage except that which is dealt by siege 
equipment; and Resistance to all other damage. 
Shrinking the tower back down to statuette form 
doesn’t repair damage to the tower. Only a Wish 
spell can repair the tower (this use of the spell 
counts as replicating a spell of level 8 or lower). 
Each casting of Wish causes the tower to regain all 
its Hit Points.
Ioun Stone
Wondrous Item, Rarity Varies (Requires Attunement)
Roughly marble sized, Ioun Stones  are named after 
Ioun, a god of knowledge and prophecy revered on 
some worlds. Many types of Ioun Stones  exist, each 
type a distinct combination of shape and color.
 When you take a Magic action to toss an Ioun 
Stone into the air, the stone orbits your head at a 
distance of 1d3 feet, conferring its benefit to you 
while doing so. You can have up to three Ioun Stones  
orbiting your head at the same time.
 Each Ioun Stone orbiting your head is considered 
to be an object you are wearing. The orbiting stone 
avoids contact with other creatures and objects, ad -
justing its orbit to avoid collisions and thwarting all 
attempts by other creatures to attack or snatch it.
 As a Utilize action, you can seize and stow any 
number of Ioun Stones orbiting your head. If your 
Attunement to an Ioun Stone  ends while it’s orbit-
ing your head, the stone falls as though you had 
dropped it.
 The type of stone determines its rarity and 
effects.
 Absorption (Very Rare). While this pale lavender 
ellipsoid orbits your head, you can take a Reaction 
to cancel a spell of level 4 or lower cast by a crea-
ture you can see. A canceled spell has no effect, and 
any resources used to cast it are wasted. Once the 
stone has canceled 20 levels of spells, it burns out, 
turns dull gray, and loses its magic.
 Agility (Very Rare). Your Dexterity increases by 
2, to a maximum of 20, while this deep-red sphere 
orbits your head.
 Awareness (Rare). While this dark-blue rhomboid 
orbits your head, you have Advantage on Initiative 
rolls and Wisdom (Perception) checks.
 Fortitude (Very Rare). Your Constitution in-
creases by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this pink 
rhomboid orbits your head.
 Greater Absorption (Legendary).  While this mar -
bled lavender and green ellipsoid orbits your head, 
you can take a Reaction to cancel a spell of level 8 
or lower cast by a creature you can see. A canceled 
spell has no effect, and any resources used to cast 
it are wasted. Once the stone has canceled 20 lev -
els of spells, it burns out, turns dull gray, and loses 
its magic.
 Insight (Very Rare). Your Wisdom increases by 
2, to a maximum of 20, while this incandescent blue 
sphere orbits your head.
 Intellect (Very Rare). Your Intelligence increases 
by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this marbled scarlet 
and blue sphere orbits your head.
 Leadership (Very Rare). Your Charisma increases 
by 2, to a maximum of 20, while this marbled pink 
and green sphere orbits your head.