System Reference Document 5.2.1
110
Wisdom saving throw to end the effect, as de -
scribed below.
 Ending the Effect. If the Frightened or Charmed 
creature ends its turn more than 120 feet away 
from the target, the creature makes a Wisdom sav -
ing throw. On a successful save, the creature is no 
longer affected by the target. A creature that suc -
cessfully saves against this effect is immune to it for 
1 minute, after which it can be affected again.
Arcane Eye
Level 4 Divination (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of bat fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create an Invisible, invulnerable eye within 
range that hovers for the duration. You mentally 
receive visual information from the eye, which can 
see in every direction. It also has Darkvision with a 
range of 30 feet.
 As a Bonus Action, you can move the eye up to 30 
feet in any direction. A solid barrier blocks the eye’s 
movement, but the eye can pass through an opening 
as small as 1 inch in diameter.
Arcane Hand
Level 5 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (an eggshell and a glove)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a Large hand of shimmering magical en -
ergy in an unoccupied space that you can see within 
range. The hand lasts for the duration, and it moves 
at your command, mimicking the movements of 
your own hand.
 The hand is an object that has AC 20 and Hit 
Points equal to your Hit Point maximum. If it drops 
to 0 Hit Points, the spell ends. The hand doesn’t oc -
cupy its space.
 When you cast the spell and as a Bonus Action on 
your later turns, you can move the hand up to 60 
feet and then cause one of the following effects:
Clenched Fist.  The hand strikes a target within 5 
feet of it. Make a melee spell attack. On a hit, the 
target takes 5d8 Force damage.
Forceful Hand.  The hand attempts to push a Huge 
or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The target 
must succeed on a Strength saving throw, or the 
hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus a number 
of feet equal to five times your spellcasting ability 
modifier. The hand moves with the target, re -
maining within 5 feet of it.
Grasping Hand.  The hand attempts to grapple a 
Huge or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. The 
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw, 
or the target has the Grappled condition, with an 
escape DC equal to your spell save DC. While the 
hand grapples the target, you can take a Bonus 
Action to cause the hand to crush it, dealing Blud -
geoning damage to the target equal to 4d6 plus 
your spellcasting ability modifier.
Interposing Hand.  The hand grants you Half Cover 
against attacks and other effects that originate 
from its space or that pass through it. In addi -
tion, its space counts as Difficult Terrain for your 
enemies.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of 
the Clenched Fist increases by 2d8 and the damage 
of the Grasping Hand increases by 2d6 for each spell 
slot level above 5.
Arcane Lock
Level 2 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth 25+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a closed door, window, gate, container, 
or hatch and magically lock it for the duration. This 
lock can’t be unlocked by any nonmagical means. 
You and any creatures you designate when you cast 
the spell can open and close the object despite the 
lock. You can also set a password that, when spoken 
within 5 feet of the object, unlocks it for 1 minute.
Arcane Sword
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature sword worth 
250+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a spectral sword that hovers within 
range. It lasts for the duration.
 When the sword appears, you make a melee spell 
attack against a target within 5 feet of the sword. 
On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal to 
4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
 On your later turns, you can take a Bonus Action 
to move the sword up to 30 feet to a spot you can 
see and repeat the attack against the same target or 
a different one.
Arcanist’s Magic Aura
Level 2 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch