System Reference Document 5.2.1
253
Weapon, +1, +2, or +3
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Uncommon (+1), Rare 
(+2), or Very Rare (+3) 
You have a bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. The bonus is deter -
mined by the weapon’s rarity.
Weapon of Warning
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Uncommon (Requires 
Attunement)
As long as this weapon is within your reach and you 
are attuned to it, you and allies within 30 feet of you 
gain the following benefits.
 Alarm. The weapon magically awakens each sub -
ject who is sleeping naturally when combat begins. 
This benefit doesn’t wake a subject from magically 
induced sleep.
 Supernatural Readiness.  Each subject has Advan -
tage on its Initiative rolls.
Well of Many Worlds
Wondrous Item, Legendary 
This fine black cloth, soft as silk, is folded up to the 
dimensions of a handkerchief. It unfolds into a cir -
cular sheet 6 feet in diameter.
 You can take a Magic action to unfold the Well of 
Many Worlds and place it on a solid surface, where -
upon it forms a two-way, 6-foot-diameter, circular 
portal to another world or plane of existence. Each 
time the item opens a portal, the GM decides where 
it leads. The portal remains open until a creature 
within 5 feet of it takes a Magic action to close it 
by taking hold of the edges of the cloth and folding 
it up.
 Once the Well of Many Worlds has opened a portal, 
it can’t do so again for 1d8 hours.
Wind Fan
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
While holding this fan, you can cast Gust of Wind 
(save DC 13) from it. Each subsequent time the fan 
is used before the next dawn, it has a cumulative 
20 percent chance of not working; if the fan fails to 
work, it tears into useless, nonmagical tatters.
Winged Boots
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
These boots have 4 charges and regain 1d4 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. While wearing the 
boots, you can take a Magic action to expend 1 
charge, gaining a Fly Speed of 30 feet for 1 hour. If 
you are flying when the duration expires, you de -
scend at a rate of 30 feet per round until you land.
Wings of Flying
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this cloak, you can take a Magic ac -
tion to turn the cloak into a pair of wings on your 
back. The wings lasts for 1 hour or until you end the 
effect early as a Magic action. The wings give you a 
Fly Speed of 60 feet. If you are aloft when the wings 
disappear, you fall. When the wings disappear, you 
can’t use them again for 1d12 hours.