System Reference Document 5.2.1
125
Divination
Level 4 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 25+ GP, which the 
spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell puts you in contact with a god or a god’s 
servants. You ask one question about a specific goal, 
event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The GM of -
fers a truthful reply, which might be a short phrase 
or cryptic rhyme. The spell doesn’t account for cir -
cumstances that might change the answer, such as 
the casting of other spells.
 If you cast the spell more than once before finish -
ing a Long Rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent 
chance for each casting after the first that you get 
no answer.
Divine Favor
Level 1 Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Until the spell ends, your attacks with weapons deal 
an extra 1d4 Radiant damage on a hit.
Divine Smite
Level 1 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi -
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or an 
Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
The target takes an extra 2d8 Radiant damage from 
the attack. The damage increases by 1d8 if the tar -
get is a Fiend or an Undead.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1.
Divine Word
Level 7 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a word imbued with power from the Up -
per Planes. Each creature of your choice in range 
makes a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, 
a target that has 50 Hit Points or fewer suffers an 
effect based on its current Hit Points, as shown in 
the Divine Word Effects table. Regardless of its Hit 
Points, a Celestial, an Elemental, a Fey, or a Fiend 
target that fails its save is forced back to its plane of 
origin (if it isn’t there already) and can’t return to 
the current plane for 24 hours by any means short 
of a Wish spell.
Divine Word Effects
Hit Points Effect 
0–20 The target dies.
21–30 The target has the Blinded, Deafened, and 
Stunned conditions for 1 hour.
31–40 The target has the Blinded and Deafened 
conditions for 10 minutes.
41–50 The target has the Deafened condition for 
1 minute.
Dominate Beast
Level 4 Enchantment (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One Beast you can see within range must succeed 
on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Charmed 
condition for the duration. The target has Advan-
tage on the save if you or your allies are fighting it. 
Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats the 
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
 You have a telepathic link with the Charmed tar -
get while the two of you are on the same plane of 
existence. On your turn, you can use this link to 
issue commands to the target (no action required), 
such as “Attack that creature,” “Move over there,” or 
“Fetch that object.” The target does its best to obey 
on its turn. If it completes an order and doesn’t re -
ceive further direction from you, it acts and moves 
as it likes, focusing on protecting itself.
 You can command the target to take a Reaction 
but must take your own Reaction to do so.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra -
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 5 (up to 
10 minutes), 6 (up to 1 hour), or 7+ (up to 8 hours).
Dominate Monster
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
One creature you can see within range must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the 
Charmed condition for the duration. The target has 
Advantage on the save if you or your allies are fight -
ing it. Whenever the target takes damage, it repeats 
the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.