System Reference Document 5.2.1
48
Level 1: Second Wind
You have a limited well of physical and mental 
stamina that you can draw on. As a Bonus Action, 
you can use it to regain Hit Points equal to 1d10 
plus your Fighter level.
 You can use this feature twice. You regain one 
expended use when you finish a Short Rest, and you 
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest.
 When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain 
more uses of this feature, as shown in the Second 
Wind column of the Fighter Features table.
Level 1: Weapon Mastery
Your training with weapons allows you to use the 
mastery properties of three kinds of Simple or Mar -
tial weapons of your choice. Whenever you finish 
a Long Rest, you can practice weapon drills and 
change one of those weapon choices.
 When you reach certain Fighter levels, you gain 
the ability to use the mastery properties of more 
kinds of weapons, as shown in the Weapon Mastery 
column of the Fighter Features table.
Level 2: Action Surge
You can push yourself beyond your normal limits 
for a moment. On your turn, you can take one addi -
tional action, except the Magic action.
 Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. Starting at 
level 17, you can use it twice before a rest but only 
once on a turn.
Level 2: Tactical Mind
You have a mind for tactics on and off the battle -
field. When you fail an ability check, you can expend 
a use of your Second Wind to push yourself toward 
success. Rather than regaining Hit Points, you roll 
1d10 and add the number rolled to the ability check, 
potentially turning it into a success. If the check still 
fails, this use of Second Wind isn’t expended.
Level 3: Fighter Subclass
You gain a Fighter subclass of your choice. The 
Champion subclass is detailed after this class’s de -
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Fighter levels. For the rest 
of your career, you gain each of your subclass’s fea-
tures that are of your Fighter level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Fighter levels 
6, 8, 12, 14, and 16.
Level 5: Extra Attack
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn.
Level 5: Tactical Shift
Whenever you activate your Second Wind with a 
Bonus Action, you can move up to half your Speed 
without provoking Opportunity Attacks.
Level 9: Indomitable
If you fail a saving throw, you can reroll it with a 
bonus equal to your Fighter level. You must use the 
new roll, and you can’t use this feature again until 
you finish a Long Rest.
 You can use this feature twice before a Long Rest 
starting at level 13 and three times before a Long 
Rest starting at level 17.
Level 9: Tactical Master
When you attack with a weapon whose mastery 
property you can use, you can replace that property 
with the Push, Sap, or Slow property for that attack.
Level 11: Two Extra Attacks
You can attack three times instead of once when -
ever you take the Attack action on your turn.
Level 13: Studied Attacks
You study your opponents and learn from each at -
tack you make. If you make an attack roll against a 
creature and miss, you have Advantage on your next 
attack roll against that creature before the end of 
your next turn.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of 
Combat Prowess is recommended.
Level 20: Three Extra Attacks
You can attack four times instead of once whenever 
you take the Attack action on your turn.