System Reference Document 5.2.1
112
an Intelligence of 10 and the ability to speak one 
language you know. If the target is a natural plant, 
it becomes a Plant creature and gains the ability to 
move its limbs, roots, vines, creepers, and so forth, 
and it gains senses similar to a human’s. The GM 
chooses statistics appropriate for the awakened 
Plant, such as the statistics for the Awakened 
Shrub or Awakened Tree  in “Monsters.”
 The awakened target has the Charmed condition 
for 30 days or until you or your allies deal damage 
to it. When that condition ends, the awakened crea-
ture chooses its attitude toward you.
Bane
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Up to three creatures of your choice that you can 
see within range must each make a Charisma saving 
throw. Whenever a target that fails this save makes 
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell 
ends, the target must subtract 1d4 from the attack 
roll or save.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Banishment
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must 
succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be trans -
ported to a harmless demiplane for the duration. 
While there, the target has the Incapacitated con -
dition. When the spell ends, the target reappears in 
the space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space 
if that space is occupied.
 If the target is an Aberration, a Celestial, an Ele -
mental, a Fey, or a Fiend, the target doesn’t return 
if the spell lasts for 1 minute. The target is instead 
transported to a random location on a plane (GM’s 
choice) associated with its creature type.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 4.
Barkskin
Level 2 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch
Component: V, S, M (a handful of bark)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, 
the target’s skin assumes a bark-like appearance, 
and the target has an Armor Class of 17 if its AC is 
lower than that.
Beacon of Hope
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose any number of creatures within range. For 
the duration, each target has Advantage on Wisdom 
saving throws and Death Saving Throws and re -
gains the maximum number of Hit Points possible 
from any healing.
Befuddlement
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a key ring with no keys)
Duration: Instantaneous
You blast the mind of a creature that you can see 
within range. The target makes an Intelligence sav -
ing throw.
 On a failed save, the target takes 10d12 Psychic 
damage and can’t cast spells or take the Magic ac -
tion. At the end of every 30 days, the target repeats 
the save, ending the effect on a success. The effect 
can also be ended by the Greater Restoration , Heal, 
or Wish spell.
 On a successful save, the target takes half as much 
damage only.
Bestow Curse
Level 3 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a creature, which must succeed on a Wis -
dom saving throw or become cursed for the dura-
tion. Until the curse ends, the target suffers one of 
the following effects of your choice:
• Choose one ability. The target has Disadvantage 
on ability checks and saving throws made with 
that ability.
• The target has Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against you.
• In combat, the target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw at the start of each of its turns or be 
forced to take the Dodge action on that turn.