System Reference Document 5.2.1
141
Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a creature that you can see within range. 
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At 
the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the 
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 5.
Hold Person
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a Humanoid that you can see within range. 
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
or have the Paralyzed condition for the duration. At 
the end of each of its turns, the target repeats the 
save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional Humanoid for each spell slot level 
above 2.
Holy Aura
Level 8 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a reliquary worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you emit an aura in a 30-foot Em -
anation. While in the aura, creatures of your choice 
have Advantage on all saving throws, and other 
creatures have Disadvantage on attack rolls against 
them. In addition, when a Fiend or an Undead hits 
an affected creature with a melee attack roll, the at -
tacker must succeed on a Constitution saving throw 
or have the Blinded condition until the end of its 
next turn.
Hunter’s Mark
Level 1 Divination (Ranger)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You magically mark one creature you can see within 
range as your quarry. Until the spell ends, you deal 
an extra 1d6 Force damage to the target whenever 
you hit it with an attack roll. You also have Advan -
tage on any Wisdom (Perception or Survival) check 
you make to find it.
 If the target drops to 0 Hit Points before this spell 
ends, you can take a Bonus Action to move the mark 
to a new creature you can see within range.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra -
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 3–4 (up 
to 8 hours) or 5+ (up to 24 hours).
Hypnotic Pattern
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a pinch of confetti)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a twisting pattern of colors in a 30-foot 
Cube within range. The pattern appears for a mo -
ment and vanishes. Each creature in the area who 
can see the pattern must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Charmed condition for the 
duration. While Charmed, the creature has the Inca-
pacitated condition and a Speed of 0.
 The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes 
any damage or if someone else uses an action to 
shake the creature out of its stupor.
Ice Knife
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S, M (a drop of water or a piece of ice)
Duration: Instantaneous
You create a shard of ice and fling it at one creature 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against 
the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 Piercing 
damage. Hit or miss, the shard then explodes. The 
target and each creature within 5 feet of it must 
succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 2d6 
Cold damage.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cold damage 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.
Ice Storm
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mitten)
Duration: Instantaneous
Hail falls in a 20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder 
centered on a point within range. Each creature 
in the Cylinder makes a Dexterity saving throw. A 
creature takes 2d10 Bludgeoning damage and 4d6 
Cold damage on a failed save or half as much dam -
age on a successful one.
 Hailstones turn ground in the Cylinder into Diffi -
cult Terrain until the end of your next turn.