System Reference Document 5.2.1
163
You create a simulacrum of one Beast or Humanoid 
that is within 10 feet of you for the entire casting of 
the spell. You finish the casting by touching both the 
creature and a pile of ice or snow that is the same 
size as that creature, and the pile turns into the 
simulacrum, which is a creature. It uses the game 
statistics of the original creature at the time of cast -
ing, except it is a Construct, its Hit Point maximum 
is half as much, and it can’t cast this spell.
 The simulacrum is Friendly to you and creatures 
you designate. It obeys your commands and acts on 
your turn in combat. The simulacrum can’t gain lev -
els, and it can’t take Short or Long Rests.
 If the simulacrum takes damage, the only way 
to restore its Hit Points is to repair it as you take a 
Long Rest, during which you expend components 
worth 100 GP per Hit Point restored. The simula-
crum must stay within 5 feet of you for the repair.
 The simulacrum lasts until it drops to 0 Hit Points, 
at which point it reverts to snow and melts away. If 
you cast this spell again, any simulacrum you cre -
ated with this spell is instantly destroyed.
Sleep
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sand or rose petals)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature of your choice in a 5-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on a point within range must suc -
ceed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Inca-
pacitated condition until the end of its next turn, 
at which point it must repeat the save. If the target 
fails the second save, the target has the Unconscious 
condition for the duration. The spell ends on a tar -
get if it takes damage or someone within 5 feet of it 
takes an action to shake it out of the spell’s effect.
 Creatures that don’t sleep, such as elves, or that 
have Immunity to the Exhaustion condition auto -
matically succeed on saves against this spell.
Sleet Storm
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature umbrella)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends, sleet falls in a 40-foot-tall, 
20-foot-radius Cylinder centered on a point you 
choose within range. The area is Heavily Obscured, 
and exposed flames in the area are doused.
 Ground in the Cylinder is Difficult Terrain. When 
a creature enters the Cylinder for the first time on 
a turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a 
Dexterity saving throw or have the Prone condition 
and lose Concentration.
Slow
Level 3 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of molasses)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You alter time around up to six creatures of your 
choice in a 40-foot Cube within range. Each target 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be af -
fected by this spell for the duration.
 An affected target’s Speed is halved, it takes a −2 
penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it 
can’t take Reactions. On its turns, it can take either 
an action or a Bonus Action, not both, and it can 
make only one attack if it takes the Attack action. If 
it casts a spell with a Somatic component, there is 
a 25 percent chance the spell fails as a result of the 
target making the spell’s gestures too slowly.
 An affected target repeats the save at the end 
of each of its turns, ending the spell on itself on a 
success.
Sorcerous Burst
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You cast sorcerous energy at one creature or object 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the 
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 damage of a 
type you choose: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, 
Psychic, or Thunder.
 If you roll an 8 on a d8 for this spell, you can roll 
another d8, and add it to the damage. When you cast 
this spell, the maximum number of these d8s you 
can add to the spell’s damage equals your spellcast -
ing ability modifier.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 
(4d8).
Spare the Dying
Necromancy Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 15 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature within range that has 0 Hit Points 
and isn’t dead. The creature becomes Stable.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The range doubles when you 
reach levels 5 (30 feet), 11 (60 feet), and 17 (120 
feet).