System Reference Document 5.2.1
138
 The spell creates the effects below within the 
warded area. Dispel Magic  has no effect on Guards 
and Wards itself, but each of the following effects 
can be dispelled. If all four are dispelled, Guards and 
Wards ends. If you cast the spell every day for 365 
days on the same area, the spell thereafter lasts un -
til all its effects are dispelled.
 Corridors.  Fog fills all the warded corridors, 
making them Heavily Obscured. In addition, at each 
intersection or branching passage offering a choice 
of direction, there is a 50 percent chance that a 
creature other than you believes it is going in the 
opposite direction from the one it chooses.
 Doors.  All doors in the warded area are magically 
locked, as if sealed by the Arcane Lock  spell. In addi-
tion, you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion 
to make them appear as plain sections of wall.
 Stairs.  Webs fill all stairs in the warded area from 
top to bottom, as in the Web  spell. These strands 
regrow in 10 minutes if they are destroyed while 
Guards and Wards lasts.
 Other Spell Effect. Place one of the following mag -
ical effects within the warded area:
• Dancing Lights in four corridors, with a simple 
program that the lights repeat as long as Guards 
and Wards lasts
• Magic Mouth in two locations
• Stinking Cloud in two locations (the vapors return 
within 10 minutes if dispersed while Guards and 
Wards lasts)
• Gust of Wind in one corridor or room (the wind 
blows continuously while the spell lasts)
• Suggestion in one 5-foot square; any creature 
that enters that square receives the suggestion 
mentally
Guidance
Divination Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Component: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature and choose a skill. Until 
the spell ends, the creature adds 1d4 to any ability 
check using the chosen skill.
Guiding Bolt
Level 1 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You hurl a bolt of light toward a creature within 
range. Make a ranged spell attack against the tar -
get. On a hit, it takes 4d6 Radiant damage, and the 
next attack roll made against it before the end of 
your next turn has Advantage.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.
Gust of Wind
Level 2 Evocation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a legume seed)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A Line of strong wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide 
blasts from you in a direction you choose for the 
duration. Each creature in the Line must succeed on 
a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away 
from you in a direction following the Line. A crea-
ture that ends its turn in the Line must make the 
same save.
 Any creature in the Line must spend 2 feet of 
movement for every 1 foot it moves when moving 
closer to you.
 The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extin -
guishes candles and similar unprotected flames in 
the area. It causes protected flames, such as those 
of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent 
chance to extinguish them.
 As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
change the direction in which the Line blasts from 
you.
Hallow
Level 5 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 24 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (incense worth 1,000+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a point and infuse an area around it with 
holy or unholy power. The area can have a radius up 
to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes 
an area already under the effect of Hallow . The af-
fected area has the following effects.
 Hallowed Ward. Choose any of these creature 
types: Aberration, Celestial, Elemental, Fey, Fiend, 
or Undead. Creatures of the chosen types can’t 
willingly enter the area, and any creature that is 
possessed by or that has the Charmed or Fright -
ened condition from such creatures isn’t possessed, 
Charmed, or Frightened by them while in the area.
 Extra Effect.  You bind an extra effect to the area 
from the list below:
Courage. Creatures of any types you choose can’t 
gain the Frightened condition while in the area.
Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as 
well as magical light created by spells of a level 
lower than this spell, can’t illuminate the area.