System Reference Document 5.2.1
115
One creature you can see within range makes a 
Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advantage 
if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save, 
the target has the Charmed condition until the 
spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The 
Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the spell 
ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 4.
Charm Person
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
One Humanoid you can see within range makes a 
Wisdom saving throw. It does so with Advantage 
if you or your allies are fighting it. On a failed save, 
the target has the Charmed condition until the 
spell ends or until you or your allies damage it. The 
Charmed creature is Friendly to you. When the spell 
ends, the target knows it was Charmed by you.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Chill Touch
Necromancy Cantrip (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time:  Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Channeling the chill of the grave, make a melee spell 
attack against a target within reach. On a hit, the 
target takes 1d10 Necrotic damage, and it can’t re -
gain Hit Points until the end of your next turn.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10 
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 
(4d10).
Chromatic Orb
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 50+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl an orb of energy at a target within range. 
Choose Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or Thun -
der for the type of orb you create, and then make a 
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the 
target takes 3d8 damage of the chosen type.
 If you roll the same number on two or more of 
the d8s, the orb leaps to a different target of your 
choice within 30 feet of the target. Make an attack 
roll against the new target, and make a new damage 
roll. The orb can’t leap again unless you cast the 
spell with a level 2+ spell slot.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1. The 
orb can leap a maximum number of times equal to 
the level of the slot expended, and a creature can be 
targeted only once by each casting of this spell.
Circle of Death
Level 6 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (the powder of a crushed black 
pearl worth 500+ GP)
Duration: Instantaneous
Negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot-radius 
Sphere from a point you choose within range. Each 
creature in that area makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 6.
Clairvoyance
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 100+ GP, either a 
jeweled horn for hearing or a glass eye for seeing)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create an Invisible sensor within range in a 
location familiar to you (a place you have visited 
or seen before) or in an obvious location that is 
unfamiliar to you (such as behind a door, around a 
corner, or in a grove of trees). The intangible, invul -
nerable sensor remains in place for the duration.
 When you cast the spell, choose seeing or hearing. 
You can use the chosen sense through the sensor as 
if you were in its space. As a Bonus Action, you can 
switch between seeing and hearing.
 A creature that sees the sensor (such as a creature 
benefiting from See Invisibility  or Truesight) sees a 
luminous orb about the size of your fist.
Clone
Level 8 Necromancy (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes, and a sealable vessel worth 
2,000+ GP that is large enough to hold the creature 
being cloned)
Duration: Instantaneous