System Reference Document 5.2.1
241
1d100 Patch
84–90 2 Mastiffs
91–96 Window (2 feet by 4 feet, up to 2 feet deep), 
which you can place on a vertical surface you 
can reach
97–00 Portable Ram
Rod of Absorption
Rod, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
While holding this rod, you can take a Reaction to 
absorb a spell that is targeting only you and doesn’t 
create an area of effect. The absorbed spell’s effect 
is canceled, and the spell’s energy—not the spell it-
self—is stored in the rod. The energy has the same 
level as the spell when it was cast. A canceled spell 
dissipates with no effect, and any resources used to 
cast it are wasted. The rod can absorb and store up 
to 50 levels of energy over the course of its existence. 
Once the rod absorbs 50 levels of energy, it can’t ab-
sorb more. If you are targeted by a spell that the rod 
can’t store, the rod has no effect on that spell.
 When you become attuned to the rod, you know 
how many levels of energy the rod has absorbed 
over the course of its existence and how many levels 
of spell energy it currently has stored.
 If you are a spellcaster holding the rod, you can 
convert energy stored in it into spell slots to cast 
spells you have prepared or know. You can create 
spell slots only of a level equal to or lower than your 
own spell slots, up to a maximum of level 5. You use 
the stored levels in place of your slots but otherwise 
cast the spell as normal. For example, you can use 3 
levels stored in the rod as a level 3 spell slot.
 A newly found rod typically has 1d10 levels of 
spell energy stored in it. A rod that can no longer 
absorb spell energy and has no energy remaining 
becomes nonmagical.
Rod of Alertness
Rod, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This rod has the following properties.
 Alertness. While holding the rod, you have 
Advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on 
Initiative rolls.
 Spells. While holding the rod, you can cast the fol -
lowing spells from it:
• Detect Evil and Good
• Detect Magic
• Detect Poison and Disease
• See Invisibility
 Protective Aura.  As a Magic action, you can plant 
the haft end of the rod in the ground, whereupon 
the rod’s head sheds Bright Light in a 60-foot radius 
and Dim Light for an additional 60 feet. While in 
that Bright Light, you and your allies gain a +1 
bonus to Armor Class and saving throws and can 
sense the location of any Invisible creature that is 
also in the Bright Light.
 The rod’s head stops glowing and the effect ends 
after 10 minutes or when a creature takes a Magic 
action to pull the rod from the ground. Once used, 
this property can’t be used again until the next 
dawn.
Rod of Lordly Might
Rod, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
This rod has a flanged head, and it functions as a 
magic Mace that grants a +3 bonus to attack rolls 
and damage rolls made with it. The rod has proper -
ties associated with six different buttons that are 
set in a row along the haft. It has three other prop -
erties as well, detailed below.
 Buttons. You can press one of the following but-
tons as a Bonus Action; a button’s effect lasts until 
you push a different button or until you push the 
same button again, which causes the rod to revert 
to its normal form:
Button 1. A fiery blade sprouts from the end op -
posite the rod’s flanged head. The flames shed 
Bright Light in a 40-foot radius and Dim Light for 
an additional 40 feet, and the blade functions as 
a magic Longsword or Shortsword (your choice) 
that deals an extra 2d6 Fire damage on a hit.
Button 2. The rod’s flanged head folds down and 
two crescent-shaped blades spring out, trans -
forming the rod into a magic Battleaxe that grants 
a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made 
with it.
Button 3. The rod’s flanged head folds down, a 
spear point springs from the rod’s tip, and the 
rod’s handle lengthens into a 6-foot haft, trans -
forming the rod into a magic Spear that grants a 
+3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls made 
with it.
Button 4. The rod transforms into a climbing pole 
up to 50 feet long (you specify the length), though 
the rod’s buttons remain within your reach. In 
surfaces as hard as granite, a spike at the bot -
tom and three hooks at the top anchor the pole. 
Horizontal bars 3 inches long fold out from the 
sides, 1 foot apart, forming a ladder. The pole can 
bear up to 4,000 pounds. More weight or lack of 
solid anchoring causes the rod to revert to its 
normal form.
Button 5. The rod transforms into a handheld 
battering ram and grants its user a +10 bonus 
to Strength (Athletics) checks made to break 
through doors, barricades, and other barriers.
Button 6. The rod assumes or remains in its nor -
mal form and indicates magnetic north. (Nothing 
happens if this function of the rod is used in a 