System Reference Document 5.2.1
170
knows at least one language can understand it if 
that creature can hear the speech or see the signing.
Transport via Plants
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
This spell creates a magical link between a Large 
or larger inanimate plant within range and another 
plant, at any distance, on the same plane of exis -
tence. You must have seen or touched the destina-
tion plant at least once before. For the duration, any 
creature can step into the target plant and exit from 
the destination plant by using 5 feet of movement.
Tree Stride
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You gain the ability to enter a tree and move from 
inside it to inside another tree of the same kind 
within 500 feet. Both trees must be living and at 
least the same size as you. You must use 5 feet of 
movement to enter a tree. You instantly know the 
location of all other trees of the same kind within 
500 feet and, as part of the move used to enter the 
tree, can either pass into one of those trees or step 
out of the tree you’re in. You appear in a spot of your 
choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, using 
another 5 feet of movement. If you have no move -
ment left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you 
entered.
 You can use this transportation ability only once 
on each of your turns. You must end each turn out -
side a tree.
True Polymorph
Level 9 Transmutation (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury, a dollop of 
gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you 
can see within range. The creature shape-shifts into 
a different creature or a nonmagical object, or the 
object shape-shifts into a creature (the object must 
be neither worn nor carried). The transformation 
lasts for the duration or until the target dies or is 
destroyed, but if you maintain Concentration on 
this spell for the full duration, the spell lasts until 
dispelled.
 An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom saving 
throw, and if it succeeds, it isn’t affected by this spell.
 Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature 
into another kind of creature, the new form can be 
any kind you choose that has a Challenge Rating 
equal to or less than the target’s Challenge Rating 
or level. The target’s game statistics are replaced by 
the stat block of the new form, but it retains its Hit 
Points, Hit Point Dice, alignment, and personality.
 The target gains a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to the Hit Points of the new form. 
These Temporary Hit Points vanish if any remain 
when the spell ends.
 The target is limited in the actions it can perform 
by the anatomy of its new form, and it can’t speak or 
cast spells.
 The target’s gear melds into the new form. The 
creature can’t use or otherwise benefit from any of 
that equipment.
 Object into Creature. You can turn an object into 
any kind of creature, as long as the creature’s size 
is no larger than the object’s size and the creature 
has a Challenge Rating of 9 or lower. The creature is 
Friendly to you and your allies. In combat, it takes 
its turns immediately after yours, and it obeys your 
commands.
 If the spell lasts more than an hour, you no longer 
control the creature. It might remain Friendly to 
you, depending on how you have treated it.
 Creature into Object. If you turn a creature into 
an object, it transforms along with whatever it is 
wearing and carrying into that form, as long as the 
object’s size is no larger than the creature’s size. The 
creature’s statistics become those of the object, and 
the creature has no memory of time spent in this 
form after the spell ends and it returns to normal.
True Resurrection
Level 9 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth 25,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has been dead for no 
longer than 200 years and that died for any reason 
except old age. The creature is revived with all its 
Hit Points.
 This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any 
poison, cures all magical contagions, and lifts any 
curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell 
replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs. 
If the creature was Undead, it is restored to its 
non-Undead form.
 The spell can provide a new body if the original 
no longer exists, in which case you must speak the 