System Reference Document 5.2.1
226
a saving throw against a spell. On a roll of 1, the 
helm emits beams of light from its remaining gems 
and is then destroyed. Each creature within a 60-
foot Emanation originating from you must succeed 
on a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by a 
beam, taking Radiant damage equal to the number 
of gems in the helm.
Helm of Comprehending Languages
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
While wearing this helm, you can cast Comprehend 
Languages from it.
Helm of Telepathy
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this helm, you have telepathy with a 
range of 30 feet, and you can cast Detect Thoughts 
or Suggestion (save DC 13) from the helm. Once ei-
ther spell is cast from the helm, that spell can’t be 
cast from it again until the next dawn.
Helm of Teleportation
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This helm has 3 charges. While wearing it, you can 
expend 1 charge to cast Teleport from it. The helm 
regains 1d3 expended charges daily at dawn.
Holy Avenger
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Legendary (Requires 
Attunement by a Paladin)
You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. When you hit a Fiend 
or an Undead with it, that creature takes an extra 
2d10 Radiant damage.
 While you hold the drawn weapon, it creates a 
10-foot Emanation originating from you. You and all 
creatures Friendly to you in the Emanation have Ad -
vantage on saving throws against spells and other 
magical effects. If you have 17 or more levels in the 
Paladin class, the size of the Emanation increases to 
30 feet.
Horn of Blasting
Wondrous Item, Rare 
You can take a Magic action to blow the horn, which 
emits a thunderous blast in a 30-foot Cone that is 
audible out to 600 feet. Each creature in the Cone 
makes a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes 5d8 Thunder damage 
and has the Deafened condition for 1 minute. On a 
successful save, a creature takes half as much dam -
age only. Glass or crystal objects in the Cone that 
aren’t being worn or carried take 10d8 Thunder 
damage.
 Each use of the horn’s magic has a 20 percent 
chance of causing the horn to explode. The ex -
plosion deals 10d6 Force damage to the user and 
destroys the horn.
Horn of Valhalla
Wondrous Item, Rare (Silver or Brass), Very Rare 
(Bronze), or Legendary (Iron) 
You can take a Magic action to blow this horn. In 
response, warrior spirits from the plane of Ysgard 
appear in unoccupied spaces within 60 feet of you. 
Each spirit uses the Berserker  stat block and re -
turns to Ysgard after 1 hour or when it drops to 0 
Hit Points. The spirits look like living, breathing 
warriors, and they have Immunity to the Charmed 
and Frightened conditions. Once you use the horn, it 
can’t be used again until 7 days have passed.
 Four types of Horn of Valhalla are known to ex-
ist, each made of a different metal. The horn’s type 
determines how many spirits it summons, as well 
as the requirement for its use. The GM chooses the 
horn’s type or determines it randomly by rolling on 
the following table.
 If you blow the horn without meeting its require -
ment, the summoned spirits attack you. If you meet 
the requirement, they are Friendly to you and your 
allies and follow your commands.
1d100 Horn Type Spirits Requirement
01–40 Silver 2 None
41–75 Brass 3 Proficiency with all 
Simple weapons
76–90 Bronze 4 Training with all 
Medium armor
91–00 Iron 5 Proficiency with all 
Martial weapons
Horseshoes of a Zephyr
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
These horseshoes come in a set of four. As a Magic 
action, you can touch one of the horseshoes to the 
hoof of a horse or similar creature, whereupon the 
horseshoe affixes itself to the hoof. Removing a 
horseshoe also takes a Magic action.
 While all four shoes are affixed to the hooves of a 
horse or similar creature, they allow the creature 
to move normally while floating 4 inches above a 
surface. This effect means the creature can cross 
or stand above nonsolid or unstable surfaces, such 
as water or lava. The creature leaves no tracks and 
ignores Difficult Terrain. In addition, the creature 
can travel for up to 12 hours a day without gaining 
Exhaustion levels from extended travel.