System Reference Document 5.2.1
149
You point toward a creature within range and 
whisper a message. The target (and only the target) 
hears the message and can reply in a whisper that 
only you can hear.
 You can cast this spell through solid objects if you 
are familiar with the target and know it is beyond 
the barrier. Magical silence; 1 foot of stone, metal, 
or wood; or a thin sheet of lead blocks the spell.
Meteor Swarm
Level 9 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four 
different points you can see within range. Each 
creature in a 40-foot-radius Sphere centered on 
each of those points makes a Dexterity saving 
throw. A creature takes 20d6 Fire damage and 20d6 
Bludgeoning damage on a failed save or half as 
much damage on a successful one. A creature in the 
area of more than one fiery Sphere is affected only 
once.
 A nonmagical object that isn’t being worn or car -
ried also takes the damage if it’s in the spell’s area, 
and the object starts burning if it’s flammable.
Mind Blank
Level 8 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hours
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
has Immunity to Psychic damage and the Charmed 
condition. The target is also unaffected by anything 
that would sense its emotions or alignment, read 
its thoughts, or magically detect its location, and 
no spell—not even Wish—can gather information 
about the target, observe it remotely, or control its 
mind.
Mind Spike
Level 2 Divination (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You drive a spike of psionic energy into the mind of 
one creature you can see within range. The target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw, taking 3d8 Psychic 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on 
a successful one. On a failed save, you also always 
know the target’s location until the spell ends, but 
only while the two of you are on the same plane 
of existence. While you have this knowledge, the 
target can’t become hidden from you, and if it has 
the Invisible condition, it gains no benefit from that 
condition against you.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.
Minor Illusion
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: 1 minute
You create a sound or an image of an object within 
range that lasts for the duration. See the descrip -
tions below for the effects of each. The illusion ends 
if you cast this spell again.
 If a creature takes a Study action to examine the 
sound or image, the creature can determine that it 
is an illusion with a successful Intelligence (Inves -
tigation) check against your spell save DC. If a crea-
ture discerns the illusion for what it is, the illusion 
becomes faint to the creature.
 Sound. If you create a sound, its volume can range 
from a whisper to a scream. It can be your voice, 
someone else’s voice, a lion’s roar, a beating of 
drums, or any other sound you choose. The sound 
continues unabated throughout the duration, or you 
can make discrete sounds at different times before 
the spell ends.
 Image. If you create an image of an object—such 
as a chair, muddy footprints, or a small chest—it 
must be no larger than a 5-foot Cube. The image 
can’t create sound, light, smell, or any other sensory 
effect. Physical interaction with the image reveals it 
to be an illusion, since things can pass through it.
Mirage Arcane
Level 7 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Sight
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 days
You make terrain in an area up to 1 mile square 
look, sound, smell, and even feel like some other 
sort of terrain. Open fields or a road could be made 
to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other 
rough or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to 
seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle 
slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth 
road.
 Similarly, you can alter the appearance of struc -
tures or add them where none are present. The spell 
doesn’t disguise, conceal, or add creatures.
 The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and 
olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground 