System Reference Document 5.2.1
121
Create or Destroy Water
Level 1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mix of water and sand)
Duration: Instantaneous
You do one of the following:
Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean 
water within range in an open container. Alter -
natively, the water falls as rain in a 30-foot Cube 
within range, extinguishing exposed flames there.
Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of 
water in an open container within range. Alter -
natively, you destroy fog in a 30-foot Cube within 
range.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create or 
destroy 10 additional gallons of water, or the size of 
the Cube increases by 5 feet, for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Create Undead
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (one 150+ GP black onyx stone 
for each corpse)
Duration: Instantaneous
You can cast this spell only at night. Choose up 
to three corpses of Medium or Small Humanoids 
within range. Each one becomes a Ghoul  under your 
control (see “Monsters” for its stat block).
 As a Bonus Action on each of your turns, you can 
mentally command any creature you animated with 
this spell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if 
you control multiple creatures, you can command 
any of them at the same time, issuing the same com -
mand to them). You decide what action the creature 
will take and where it will move on its next turn, or 
you can issue a general command, such as to guard 
a particular place. If you issue no commands, the 
creature takes the Dodge action and moves only to 
avoid harm. Once given an order, the creature con -
tinues to follow the order until its task is complete.
 The creature is under your control for 24 hours, 
after which it stops obeying any command you’ve 
given it. To maintain control of the creature for an -
other 24 hours, you must cast this spell on the crea-
ture before the current 24-hour period ends. This 
use of the spell reasserts your control over up to 
three creatures you have animated with this spell 
rather than animating new ones.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you use a level 
7 spell slot, you can animate or reassert control 
over four Ghouls. If you use a level 8 spell slot, you 
can animate or reassert control over five Ghouls  
or two Ghasts  or Wights. If you use a level 9 spell 
slot, you can animate or reassert control over six 
Ghouls, three Ghasts  or Wights, or two Mummies . 
See “Monsters” for these stat blocks.
Creation
Level 5 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a paintbrush)
Duration: Special
You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shad -
owfell to create an object within range. It is either 
an object of vegetable matter (soft goods, rope, 
wood, and the like) or mineral matter (stone, crys -
tal, metal, and the like). The object must be no 
larger than a 5-foot Cube, and the object must be of 
a form and material that you have seen.
 The spell’s duration depends on the object’s ma-
terial, as shown in the Materials table. If the object 
is composed of multiple materials, use the shortest 
duration. Using any object created by this spell as 
another spell’s Material component causes the other 
spell to fail.
Materials
Material Duration
Vegetable matter 24 hours
Stone or crystal 12 hours
Precious metals 1 hour
Gems 10 minutes
Adamantine or mithral 1 minute
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Cube in -
creases by 5 feet for each spell slot level above 5.
Cure Wounds
Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch regains a number of Hit Points 
equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 2d8 for each spell slot level above 1.
Dancing Lights
Illusion Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute