System Reference Document 5.2.1
22
unaliGnEd crEaturEs
Most creatures that lack the capacity for rational 
thought don’t have alignments; they are unaligned. 
Sharks are savage predators, for example, but they 
aren’t evil; they are unaligned.
doing what seems best at the time. Someone who’s 
bored by moral debate is probably Neutral.
 Chaotic Neutral (CN). Chaotic Neutral creatures 
follow their whims, valuing their personal freedom 
above all else. A scoundrel who wanders the land 
living by their wits is probably Chaotic Neutral.
 Lawful Evil (LE). Lawful Evil creatures methodi -
cally take what they want within the limits of a code 
of tradition, loyalty, or order. An aristocrat exploit -
ing citizens while scheming for power is probably 
Lawful Evil.
 Neutral Evil (NE). Neutral Evil is the alignment of 
those who are untroubled by the harm they cause as 
they pursue their desires. A criminal who robs and 
murders as they please is probably Neutral Evil.
 Chaotic Evil (CE). Chaotic Evil creatures act 
with arbitrary violence, spurred by their hatred or 
bloodlust. A villain pursuing schemes of vengeance 
and havoc is probably Chaotic Evil.
Step 5: Character Creation Details
Now fill in the rest of your character sheet.
Record Class Features
Look at your class’s feature table in “Classes,” and 
write down the level 1 features. The class features 
are detailed there too.
  Some class features offer choices. Make sure to 
read all your features and make any offered choices.
Fill In Numbers
Note these numbers on your character sheet.
 Saving Throws. For the saving throws you have 
proficiency in, add your Proficiency Bonus to the ap -
propriate ability modifier and note the total. Some 
players also like to note the modifier for saving 
throws they’re not proficient in, which is just the 
relevant ability modifier.
 Skills.  For skills you have proficiency in, add your 
Proficiency Bonus to the ability modifier associated 
with that skill, and note the total. You might also 
wish to note the modifier for skills you’re not profi -
cient in, which is just the relevant ability modifier.
 Passive Perception. Sometimes your GM will de -
termine whether your character notices something 
without asking you to make a Wisdom (Perception) 
check; the GM uses your Passive Perception instead. 
Passive Perception is a score that reflects a general 
awareness of your surroundings when you’re not 
actively looking for something. Use this formula to 
determine your Passive Perception score:
Passive Perception = 10 + Wisdom (Perception) 
check modifier
Include all modifiers that apply to your Wisdom 
(Perception) checks. For example, if your character 
has a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency in the Percep -
tion skill, you have a Passive Perception of 14 (10 + 
2 for your Wisdom modifier + 2 for proficiency). 
 Hit Points. Your class and Constitution modifier 
determine your Hit Point maximum at level 1, as 
shown on the Level 1 Hit Points by Class table.
Level 1 Hit Points by Class
Class Hit Point Maximum
Barbarian 12 + Con. modifier
Fighter, Paladin, or Ranger 10 + Con. modifier
Bard, Cleric, Druid, Monk, 
Rogue, or Warlock
8 + Con. modifier
Sorcerer or Wizard 6 + Con. modifier
The character sheet includes room to note your 
current Hit Points when you take damage, as well as 
any Temporary Hit Points you might gain. There’s 
also space to track Death Saving Throws.
 Hit Point Dice. Your class’s description tells you 
the die type of your character’s Hit Point Dice (or 
Hit Dice for short); write this on your character 
sheet. At level 1, your character has 1 Hit Die. You 
can spend Hit Dice during a Short Rest to recover 
Hit Points. Your character sheet also includes space 
to note how many Hit Dice you’ve spent.
 Initiative.  Write your Dexterity modifier in the 
space for Initiative on your character sheet.
 Armor Class. Without armor or a shield, your 
base Armor Class is 10 plus your Dexterity modi -
fier. If your starting equipment includes armor or a 
Shield (or both), calculate your AC using the rules in 
“Equipment.” A class feature might give you a differ -
ent way to calculate your AC.
 Attacks.  In the Weapons & Damage Cantrips 
section of the character sheet, write your starting 
weapons. The attack roll bonus for a weapon with 
which you have proficiency is one of the following 
unless a weapon’s property says otherwise:
Melee attack bonus  = Strength modifier 
+ Proficiency Bonus
Ranged attack bonus  = Dexterity modifier  
 + Proficiency Bonus
 Look up the damage and properties of your 
weapons in “Equipment.” You add the same ability 
modifier you use for attacks with a weapon to your 
damage rolls with that weapon.
 Spellcasting. Note both the saving throw DC for 
your spells and the attack bonus for attacks you 
make with them, using these formulas: