System Reference Document 5.2.1
199
Traps
Traps should be used sparingly, lest they lose their 
charm. A hidden pit can be a fun surprise, but too 
many traps in an adventure can lead players to be -
come overly cautious, which slows down the game.
 The best traps are fleeting distractions that 
skilled characters can overcome in a short amount 
of time or deadly puzzles that require quick think -
ing and teamwork to overcome. Traps that are un -
detectable and inescapable are rarely fun.
Parts of a Trap
The description of a trap includes the following 
parts after the trap’s name:
Severity and Levels.  A trap is designated as a nui -
sance or as deadly for characters of certain levels.  
A nuisance trap is unlikely to seriously harm char -
acters of the indicated levels, whereas a deadly 
trap can grievously damage characters of the indi -
cated levels.
Trigger. Traps are often set to go off when a crea-
ture enters an area or touches an object. Examples 
of triggers include stepping on a pressure plate, 
crossing a trip wire, turning a doorknob, or using 
the wrong key in a lock.
Duration. Some traps have durations expressed 
in rounds, minutes, or hours. Others specify that 
their effects last until the trap is destroyed or 
dispelled. If a trap’s duration is instantaneous, its 
effect is resolved instantly. If a trap resets after 
activating, that fact is noted in this entry. A trap is 
otherwise inert after activation.
Use caution when introducing a trap to characters 
of a level lower than the trap’s level range. A trap 
that is a nuisance at one level range could be deadly 
to characters of a lower level range.
Example Traps
Traps are presented in alphabetical order.
Collapsing Roof
Deadly Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature crosses a trip wire
Duration: Instantaneous
This trap uses a trip wire to collapse an unstable 
section of ceiling. The trip wire is 3 inches off the 
ground and stretches between two weak supports 
that topple when the trip wire is pulled.
 The first creature that crosses the trip wire 
causes the supports to topple and the unstable sec -
tion of ceiling to collapse. Each creature beneath the 
unstable section of ceiling must succeed on a DC 13 
Dexterity saving throw, taking 11 (2d10) Bludgeon -
ing damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one. Rubble from the collapse turns 
the trapped area into Difficult Terrain.  
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Search action, a creature 
can examine the trapped area and make a DC 11 
Wisdom (Perception) check, detecting the trip wire 
and the unstable section of ceiling on a successful 
check. Once detected, the trip wire can be easily cut 
or avoided (no ability check required).
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing the damage and the save DC, as 
shown in the following table. 
Levels Bludgeoning Damage Save DC
5–10 22 (4d10) 15
11–16 55 (10d10) 17
17–20 99 (18d10) 19
Falling Net
Nuisance Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature crosses a trip wire
Duration: Instantaneous
A falling net trap uses a trip wire to release a 
weighted, 10-foot-square Net suspended from the 
ceiling. The trip wire is 3 inches off the ground and 
stretches between two columns or trees. 
 The first creature that crosses the trip wire 
causes the Net to fall on it. The target must suc -
ceed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or have the 
Restrained condition until it escapes. The target 
succeeds automatically if it’s Huge or larger. A crea-
ture can take an action to make a DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check, freeing itself or another creature 
within its reach from the Net on a successful check.  
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Search action, a creature 
can examine the trapped area and make a DC 11 
Wisdom (Perception) check, detecting the trip wire 
and the suspended Net on a successful check. Once 
detected, the trip wire can be easily cut or avoided 
(no ability check required).
 Destroy the Net. Reducing the Net to 0 Hit Points 
frees any creature trapped in it (see “Adventuring 
Gear” for the Net’s statistics).
 Set the Trap. A creature that has Thieves’ Tools 
and all the trap’s components (including a Net) can 
try to set a falling net trap, doing so with a success -
ful DC 13 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. Each 
attempt to set this trap takes 10 minutes.
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing the weight of the Net, which 
increases the save DC and the DC of the Strength 
(Athletics) check as follows: DC 12 at levels 5–10, DC 
14 at levels 11–16, or DC 16 at levels 17–20. 
Fire-Casting Statue
Deadly Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature moves onto a pressure plate