System Reference Document 5.2.1
248
 Thunder and Lightning. Immediately after you 
hit with a melee attack using the staff, you can take 
a Bonus Action to use the Lightning and Thunder 
properties (see above) at the same time. Doing so 
doesn’t expend the daily use of those properties, 
only the use of this one.
 Lightning Strike. You can take a Magic action to 
cause a bolt of lightning to leap from the staff’s tip 
in a Line that is 5 feet wide and 120 feet long. Each 
creature in that Line makes a DC 17 Dexterity sav -
ing throw, taking 9d6 Lightning damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
 Thunderclap. You can take a Magic action to 
cause the staff to produce a thunderclap audible out 
to 600 feet. Every creature within a 60-foot Emana-
tion originating from you makes a DC 17 Constitu -
tion saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 
2d6 Thunder damage and has the Deafened condi -
tion for 1 minute. On a successful save, a creature 
takes half as much damage only.
Staff of Withering
Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This staff has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn.
 The staff can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff. 
On a hit, it deals damage as a normal Quarterstaff, 
and you can expend 1 charge to deal an extra 2d10 
Necrotic damage to the target and force it to make 
a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target has Disadvantage for 1 hour on any 
ability check or saving throw that uses Strength or 
Constitution.
Stone of Controlling Earth Elementals
Wondrous Item, Rare 
While touching this 5-pound stone to the ground, 
you can take a Magic action to summon an Earth 
Elemental. The elemental appears in an unoccupied 
space you choose within 30 feet of yourself, obeys 
your commands, and takes its turn immediately 
after you on your Initiative count. The elemental 
disappears after 1 hour, when it dies, or when you 
dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The stone can’t be used 
this way again until the next dawn.
Stone of Good Luck (Luckstone)
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While this polished agate is on your person, you 
gain a +1 bonus to ability checks and saving throws.
Sun Blade
Weapon (Longsword), Rare (Requires Attunement)
This item appears to be a sword hilt.
 Blade of Radiance. While grasping the hilt, you 
can take a Bonus Action to cause a blade of pure 
radiance to spring into existence or make the 
blade disappear. While the blade exists, this magic 
weapon functions as a Longsword with the Finesse 
property. If you are proficient with Longswords or 
Shortswords, you are proficient with the Sun Blade .
 You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage 
rolls made with this weapon, which deals Radiant 
damage instead of Slashing damage. When you hit 
an Undead with it, that target takes an extra 1d8 
Radiant damage.
 Sunlight. The sword’s luminous blade emits 
Bright Light in a 15-foot radius and Dim Light for 
an additional 15 feet. The light is sunlight. While 
the blade persists, you can take a Magic action to 
expand or reduce its radius of Bright Light and Dim 
Light by 5 feet each, to a maximum of 30 feet each 
or a minimum of 10 feet each.
Sword of Life Stealing
Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, Rapier, 
Scimitar, or Shortsword), Rare (Requires Attunement)
When you attack a creature with this magic weapon 
and roll a 20 on the d20 for the attack roll, that 
target takes an extra 15 Necrotic damage if it isn’t 
a Construct or an Undead, and you gain Temporary 
Hit Points equal to the amount of Necrotic damage 
taken.
Sword of Sharpness
Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, or Scimitar), 
Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
When you attack an object with this magic weapon 
and hit, maximize your weapon damage dice 
against the target.
 When you attack a creature with this weapon 
and roll a 20 on the d20 for the attack roll, that tar -
get takes an extra 14 Slashing damage and gains 
1 Exhaustion level.
Sword of Wounding
Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, Rapier, 
Scimitar, or Shortsword), Rare (Requires Attunement)
When you hit a creature with an attack using 
this magic weapon, the target takes an extra 2d6 
Necrotic damage and must succeed on a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw or be unable to regain Hit 
Points for 1 hour. The target repeats the save at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on 
a success.
Talisman of Pure Good
Wondrous Item, Legendary (Requires Attunement by a 
Cleric or Paladin)
This talisman is a mighty symbol of goodness. A 
Fiend or an Undead that touches the talisman takes 
8d6 Radiant damage and takes the damage again 
each time it ends its turn holding or carrying the 
talisman.