System Reference Document 5.2.1
165
a creature enters the Emanation or ends its turn 
there, the creature must make a Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8 Ra-
diant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8 Ne -
crotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful save, 
the creature takes half as much damage. A creature 
makes this save only once per turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3.
Spiritual Weapon
Level 2 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a floating, spectral force that resembles 
a weapon of your choice and lasts for the duration. 
The force appears within range in a space of your 
choice, and you can immediately make one melee 
spell attack against one creature within 5 feet of the 
force. On a hit, the target takes Force damage equal 
to 1d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
 As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
move the force up to 20 feet and repeat the attack 
against a creature within 5 feet of it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for every slot level above 2.
Starry Wisp
Evocation Cantrip (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a mote of light at one creature or object 
within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the 
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Radiant dam -
age, and until the end of your next turn, it emits Dim 
Light in a 10-foot radius and can’t benefit from the 
Invisible condition.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 
(4d8).
Stinking Cloud
Level 3 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a rotten egg)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of yellow, nau-
seating gas centered on a point within range. The 
cloud is Heavily Obscured. The cloud lingers in the 
air for the duration or until a strong wind (such as 
the one created by Gust of Wind ) disperses it.
 Each creature that starts its turn in the Sphere 
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or 
have the Poisoned condition until the end of the cur -
rent turn. While Poisoned in this way, the creature 
can’t take an action or a Bonus Action.
Stone Shape
Level 4 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (soft clay)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller 
or a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any di -
mension and form it into any shape you like. For ex -
ample, you could shape a large rock into a weapon, 
statue, or coffer, or you could make a small passage 
through a wall that is 5 feet thick. You could also 
shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door shut. 
The object you create can have up to two hinges and 
a latch, but finer mechanical detail isn’t possible.
Stoneskin
Level 4 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slash -
ing damage.
Storm of Vengeance
Level 9 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A churning storm cloud forms for the duration, 
centered on a point within range and spreading to 
a radius of 300 feet. Each creature under the cloud 
when it appears must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw or take 2d6 Thunder damage and have 
the Deafened condition for the duration.
 At the start of each of your later turns, the storm 
produces different effects, as detailed below.
 Turn 2. Acidic rain falls. Each creature and object 
under the cloud takes 4d6 Acid damage.
 Turn 3. You call six bolts of lightning from the 
cloud to strike six different creatures or objects 
beneath it. Each target makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 10d6 Lightning damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one.