System Reference Document 5.2.1
221
 Closing the bottle causes the cloud to become 
fixed in place until it disperses after 10 minutes. 
A strong wind (such as that created by the Gust of 
Wind spell) disperses the cloud after 1 minute.
Eyes of Charming
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
These crystal lenses fit over the eyes. They have 
3 charges. While wearing them, you can expend 
1 or more charges to cast Charm Person  (save DC 
13). For 1 charge, you cast the level 1 version of the 
spell. You increase the spell’s level by one for each 
additional charge you expend. The lenses regain all 
expended charges daily at dawn.
Eyes of Minute Seeing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
These crystal lenses fit over the eyes. While wear -
ing them, your vision improves significantly out to a 
range of 1 foot, granting you Darkvision within that 
range and Advantage on Intelligence (Investigation) 
checks made to examine something within that 
range.
Eyes of the Eagle
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
These crystal lenses fit over the eyes. While wear -
ing them, you have Advantage on Wisdom (Per -
ception) checks that rely on sight. In conditions of 
clear visibility, you can make out details of even 
extremely distant creatures and objects as small as 
2 feet across.
Feather Token
Wondrous Item, Rarity Varies 
This object looks like a feather. Different types of 
feather tokens exist, each with a different single-use 
effect. The GM chooses the kind of token or deter -
mines it randomly by rolling on the Feather Tokens 
table. The type of token determines its rarity. 
 Anchor (Uncommon). You can take a Magic action 
to touch the token to a boat or ship. For the next 
24 hours, the vessel can’t be moved by any means. 
Touching the token to the vessel again ends the ef -
fect. When the effect ends, the token disappears.
 Bird (Rare). You can take a Magic action to toss 
the token 5 feet into the air. The token disappears 
and an enormous, multicolored bird takes its place. 
The bird has the statistics of a Roc , but it can’t at-
tack. It obeys your simple commands and can carry 
up to 500 pounds while flying at its maximum 
speed (16 miles per hour for a maximum of 144 
miles per day, with a 1-hour rest for every 3 hours of 
flying) or 1,000 pounds at half that speed. The bird 
disappears after flying its maximum distance for a 
day or if it drops to 0 Hit Points. You can dismiss the 
bird as a Magic action.
 Fan (Uncommon). If you are on a boat or ship, 
you can take a Magic action to toss the token up to 
10 feet in the air. The token disappears, and a giant 
flapping fan takes its place. The fan floats and cre -
ates a strong wind. This wind can fill the sails of one 
ship, increasing its speed by 5 miles per hour for 8 
hours. You can dismiss the fan as a Magic action.
 Swan Boat (Rare). You can take a Magic action to 
touch the token to a body of water at least 60 feet 
in diameter. The token disappears, and a 50-foot-
long, 20-foot-wide boat shaped like a swan takes its 
place. The boat is self-propelled and moves across 
water at a speed of 6 miles per hour. You can take 
a Magic action while on the boat to command it to 
move or to turn up to 90 degrees. The boat remains 
for 24 hours and then disappears. You can dismiss 
the boat as a Magic action.
 Tree (Uncommon). You must be outdoors to use 
this token. You can take a Magic action to touch it 
to an unoccupied space on the ground. The token 
disappears, and in its place a nonmagical oak tree 
springs into existence. The tree is 60 feet tall and 
has a 5-foot-diameter trunk, and its branches at the 
top spread out in a 20-foot radius.
 Whip (Rare). You can take a Magic action to 
throw the token to a point within 10 feet of yourself. 
The token disappears, and a floating whip takes its 
place. You can then take a Bonus Action to make a 
melee spell attack against a creature within 10 feet 
of the whip, with an attack bonus of +9. On a hit, the 
target takes 1d6 + 5 Force damage.
 As a Bonus Action, you can direct the whip to fly 
up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a creature 
within 10 feet of the whip. The whip disappears after 
1 hour, when you take a Magic action to dismiss it, or 
when you die or have the Incapacitated condition.
Feather Tokens
1d100 Token Rarity
01–20 Anchor Uncommon
21–35 Bird Rare
36–50 Fan Uncommon
51–65 Swan boat Rare
66–90 Tree Uncommon
91–00 Whip Rare
Figurine of Wondrous Power
Wondrous Item, Rarity Varies 
A Figurine of Wondrous Power is a statuette small 
enough to fit in a pocket. If you take a Magic ac -
tion to throw the figurine to a point on the ground 
within 60 feet of yourself, the figurine becomes a 
living creature specified in the figurine’s descrip -
tion below. If the space where the creature would 
appear is occupied by other creatures or objects, or 