System Reference Document 5.2.1
158
Regenerate
Level 7 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a prayer wheel)
Duration: 1 hour
A creature you touch regains 4d8 + 15 Hit Points. 
For the duration, the target regains 1 Hit Point at 
the start of each of its turns, and any severed body 
parts regrow after 2 minutes.
Ray of Sickness
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You shoot a greenish ray at a creature within range. 
Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a 
hit, the target takes 2d8 Poison damage and has the 
Poisoned condition until the end of your next turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1.
Reincarnate
Level 5 Necromancy (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (rare oils worth 1,000+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a dead Humanoid or a piece of one. If the 
creature has been dead no longer than 10 days, 
the spell forms a new body for it and calls the soul 
to enter that body. Roll 1d10 and consult the table 
below to determine the body’s species, or the GM 
chooses another playable species.
1d10 Species 1d10 Species
1 Roll again. 6 Goliath
2 Dragonborn 7 Halfling
3 Dwarf 8 Human
4 Elf 9 Orc
5 Gnome 10 Tiefling
 The reincarnated creature makes any choices that 
a species’ description offers, and the creature re -
calls its former life. It retains the capabilities it had 
in its original form, except it loses the traits of its 
previous species and gains the traits of its new one.
Remove Curse
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
At your touch, all curses affecting one creature 
or object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, 
its curse remains, but the spell breaks its owner’s 
Attunement to the object so it can be removed or 
discarded.
Resilient Sphere
Level 4 Abjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a glass sphere)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A shimmering sphere encloses a Large or smaller 
creature or object within range. An unwilling crea-
ture must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or 
be enclosed for the duration.
 Nothing—not physical objects, energy, or other 
spell effects—can pass through the barrier, in or 
out, though a creature in the sphere can breathe 
there. The sphere is immune to all damage, and a 
creature or object inside can’t be damaged by at -
tacks or effects originating from outside, nor can a 
creature inside the sphere damage anything outside 
it.
 The sphere is weightless and just large enough to 
contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed 
creature can take an action to push against the 
sphere’s walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half 
the creature’s Speed. Similarly, the globe can be 
picked up and moved by other creatures.
 A Disintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it 
without harming anything inside.
Resistance
Abjuration Cantrip (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Component: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a willing creature and choose a damage 
type: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Ne -
crotic, Piercing, Poison, Radiant, Slashing, or Thun -
der. When the creature takes damage of the chosen 
type before the spell ends, the creature reduces the 
total damage taken by 1d4. A creature can benefit 
from this spell only once per turn.
Resurrection
Level 7 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 1,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous