System Reference Document 5.2.1
154
 The target’s gear melds into the new form. The 
creature can’t use or otherwise benefit from any of 
that equipment.
Power Word Heal
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of healing energy washes over one creature 
you can see within range. The target regains all its 
Hit Points. If the creature has the Charmed, Fright -
ened, Paralyzed, Poisoned, or Stunned condition, 
the condition ends. If the creature has the Prone 
condition, it can use its Reaction to stand up.
Power Word Kill
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Component: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You compel one creature you can see within range 
to die. If the target has 100 Hit Points or fewer, it 
dies. Otherwise, it takes 12d12 Psychic damage.
Power Word Stun
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You overwhelm the mind of one creature you can 
see within range. If the target has 150 Hit Points or 
fewer, it has the Stunned condition. Otherwise, its 
Speed is 0 until the start of your next turn.
 The Stunned target makes a Constitution saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the con -
dition on itself on a success.
Prayer of Healing
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to five creatures of your choice who remain 
within range for the spell’s entire casting gain the 
benefits of a Short Rest and also regain 2d8 Hit 
Points. A creature can’t be affected by this spell 
again until that creature finishes a Long Rest.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.
Prestidigitation
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to 1 hour
You create a magical effect within range. Choose 
the effect from the options below. If you cast this 
spell multiple times, you can have up to three of its 
non-instantaneous effects active at a time.
 Sensory Effect.  You create an instantaneous, 
harmless sensory effect, such as a shower of sparks, 
a puff of wind, faint musical notes, or an odd odor.
  Fire Play. You instantaneously light or snuff out a 
candle, a torch, or a small campfire.
 Clean or Soil. You instantaneously clean or soil an 
object no larger than 1 cubic foot.
 Minor Sensation. You chill, warm, or flavor up to 
1 cubic foot of nonliving material for 1 hour.
 Magic Mark. You make a color, a small mark, or a 
symbol appear on an object or a surface for 1 hour.
 Minor Creation. You create a nonmagical trinket 
or an illusory image that can fit in your hand. It 
lasts until the end of your next turn. A trinket can 
deal no damage and has no monetary worth.
Prismatic Spray
Level 7 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Eight rays of light flash from you in a 60-foot Cone. 
Each creature in the Cone makes a Dexterity saving 
throw. For each target, roll 1d8 to determine which 
color ray affects it, consulting the Prismatic Rays 
table.
Prismatic Rays
1d8 Ray
1 Red. Failed Save: 12d6 Fire damage. Successful 
Save: Half as much damage.
2 Orange. Failed Save: 12d6 Acid damage. Successful 
Save: Half as much damage.
3 Yellow. Failed Save: 12d6 Lightning damage. Suc -
cessful Save: Half as much damage.
4 Green. Failed Save: 12d6 Poison damage. Success -
ful Save: Half as much damage.