System Reference Document 5.2.1
160
Scrying
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a focus worth 1,000+ GP, such as 
a crystal ball, mirror, or water-filled font)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You can see and hear a creature you choose that is 
on the same plane of existence as you. The target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified 
(see the tables below) by how well you know the 
target and the sort of physical connection you have 
to it. The target doesn’t know what it is making the 
save against, only that it feels uneasy.
Your Knowledge of the Target Is … Save Modifier
Secondhand (heard of the target) +5
Firsthand (met the target) +0
Extensive (know the target well) −5
You Have the Target’s … Save Modifier
Picture or other likeness −2
Garment or other possession −4
Body part, lock of hair, or bit of nail −10
 On a successful save, the target isn’t affected, and 
you can’t use this spell on it again for 24 hours.
 On a failed save, the spell creates an Invisible, 
intangible sensor within 10 feet of the target. You 
can see and hear through the sensor as if you were 
there. The sensor moves with the target, remaining 
within 10 feet of it for the duration. If something 
can see the sensor, it appears as a luminous orb 
about the size of your fist.
 Instead of targeting a creature, you can target a 
location you have seen. When you do so, the sensor 
appears at that location and doesn’t move.
Searing Smite
Level 1 Evocation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi -
ately after hitting a target with a Melee weapon or an 
Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: 1 minute
As you hit the target, it takes an extra 1d6 Fire dam -
age from the attack. At the start of each of its turns 
until the spell ends, the target takes 1d6 Fire dam -
age and then makes a Constitution saving throw. 
On a failed save, the spell continues. On a successful 
save, the spell ends.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. All the damage 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.
Secret Chest
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a chest, 3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet, 
constructed from rare materials worth 5,000+ GP, and 
a Tiny replica of the chest made from the same materi -
als worth 50+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You hide a chest and all its contents on the Ethereal 
Plane. You must touch the chest and the miniature 
replica that serve as Material components for the 
spell. The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of 
nonliving material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).
 While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, 
you can take a Magic action and touch the replica to 
recall the chest. It appears in an unoccupied space 
on the ground within 5 feet of you. You can send the 
chest back to the Ethereal Plane by taking a Magic 
action to touch the chest and the replica.
 After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent 
chance at the end of each day that the spell ends. 
The spell also ends if you cast this spell again or if 
the Tiny replica chest is destroyed. If the spell ends 
and the larger chest is on the Ethereal Plane, the 
chest remains there for you or someone else to find.
See Invisibility
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of talc)
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, you see creatures and objects that 
have the Invisible condition as if they were visible, 
and you can see into the Ethereal Plane. Creatures 
and objects there appear ghostly.
Seeming
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You give an illusory appearance to each creature of 
your choice that you can see within range. An un -
willing target can make a Charisma saving throw, 
and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell.
 You can give the same appearance or different 
ones to the targets. The spell can change the ap -
pearance of the targets’ bodies and equipment. 
You can make each creature seem 1 foot shorter or 
taller and appear heavier or lighter. A target’s new 
appearance must have the same basic arrangement 
of limbs as the target, but the extent of the illusion 