System Reference Document 5.2.1
59
choice with which you have proficiency, such as 
Longbows and Shortswords.
 Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can change 
the kinds of weapons you chose. For example, you 
could switch to using the mastery properties of 
Scimitars and Longswords.
Level 2: Deft Explorer
Thanks to your travels, you gain the following 
benefits.
 Expertise.  Choose one of your skill proficiencies 
with which you lack Expertise. You gain Expertise 
in that skill.
 Languages.  You know two languages of your 
choice from the language tables in “Character 
Creation.”
Level 2: Fighting Style
You gain a Fighting Style feat of your choice (see 
“Feats”). Instead of choosing one of those feats, you 
can choose the option below.
 Druidic Warrior. You learn two Druid cantrips of 
your choice (see the Druid class’s section for a list of 
Druid spells). Guidance and Starry Wisp are recom -
mended. The chosen cantrips count as Ranger spells 
for you, and Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for 
them. Whenever you gain a Ranger level, you can 
replace one of these cantrips with another Druid 
cantrip.
Level 3: Ranger Subclass
You gain a Ranger subclass of your choice. The 
Hunter subclass is detailed after this class’s de -
scription. A subclass is a specialization that grants 
you features at certain Ranger levels. For the rest 
of your career, you gain each of your subclass’s fea-
tures that are of your Ranger level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Ranger levels 
8, 12, and 16.
Level 5: Extra Attack
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn.
Level 6: Roving
Your Speed increases by 10 feet while you aren’t 
wearing Heavy armor. You also have a Climb Speed 
and a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
Level 9: Expertise
Choose two of your skill proficiencies with which 
you lack Expertise. You gain Expertise in those 
skills.
Level 10: Tireless
Primal forces now help fuel you on your journeys, 
granting you the following benefits.
 Temporary Hit Points. As a Magic action, you can 
give yourself a number of Temporary Hit Points 
equal to 1d8 plus your Wisdom modifier (minimum 
of 1). You can use this action a number of times 
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), 
and you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest.
 Decrease Exhaustion. Whenever you finish a 
Short Rest, your Exhaustion level, if any, decreases 
by 1. 
Level 13: Relentless Hunter
Taking damage can’t break your Concentration on 
Hunter’s Mark.
Level 14: Nature’s Veil
You invoke spirits of nature to magically hide your -
self. As a Bonus Action, you can give yourself the 
Invisible condition until the end of your next turn.
 You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Long Rest.
Level 17: Precise Hunter
You have Advantage on attack rolls against the crea-
ture currently marked by your Hunter’s Mark .
Level 18: Feral Senses
Your connection to the forces of nature grants you 
Blindsight with a range of 30 feet.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of Di -
mensional Travel is recommended.
Level 20: Foe Slayer
The damage die of your Hunter’s Mark is a d10 
rather than a d6.