System Reference Document 5.2.1
186
Paralyzed [Condition]
While you have the Paralyzed condition, you experi -
ence the following effects.
 Incapacitated.  You have the Incapacitated 
condition.
 Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can’t increase.
 Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail 
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
 Attacks Affected.  Attack rolls against you have 
Advantage.
 Automatic Critical Hits. Any attack roll that hits 
you is a Critical Hit if the attacker is within 5 feet of 
you.
Passive Perception
Passive Perception is a score that reflects a crea-
ture’s general awareness of its surroundings. The 
GM uses this score when determining whether a 
creature notices something without consciously 
making a Wisdom (Perception) check.
 A creature’s Passive Perception equals 10 plus the 
creature’s Wisdom (Perception) check bonus. If the 
creature has Advantage on such checks, increase 
the score by 5. If the creature has Disadvantage on 
them, decrease the score by 5. For example, a level 
1 character with a Wisdom of 15 and proficiency in 
Perception has a Passive Perception of 14 (10 + 2 + 
2). If that character has Advantage on Wisdom (Per -
ception) checks, the score becomes 19.
Per Day
If a rule says you can use something a certain num -
ber of times per day, that means you must finish a 
Long Rest to use it again after you run out of uses.
Petrified [Condition]
While you have the Petrified condition, you experi -
ence the following effects.
 Turned to Inanimate Substance.  You are trans-
formed, along with any nonmagical objects you are 
wearing and carrying, into a solid inanimate sub -
stance (usually stone). Your weight increases by a 
factor of ten, and you cease aging.
 Incapacitated.  You have the Incapacitated 
condition.
 Speed 0. Your Speed is 0 and can’t increase.
 Attacks Affected.  Attack rolls against you have 
Advantage.
 Saving Throws Affected. You automatically fail 
Strength and Dexterity saving throws.
 Resist Damage. You have Resistance to all 
damage.
 Poison Immunity. You have Immunity to the Poi-
soned condition.
Player Character
A player character is a character controlled by a 
player. See also “Character Creation.”
Poisoned [Condition]
While you have the Poisoned condition, you experi -
ence the following effect.
 Ability Checks and Attacks Affected. You have 
Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
Possession
Some effects cause a creature to be possessed by 
another creature or entity. A possessing effect de -
fines how the possession operates. Possession can 
be prevented by the Protection from Evil and Good 
spell and ended by the Dispel Evil and Good spell.
Proficiency
If you have proficiency with something, you can add 
your Proficiency Bonus to any D20 Test you make 
using that thing. A creature might have proficiency 
in a skill or saving throw or with a weapon or tool. 
See also “Playing the Game” (“Proficiency”).
Prone [Condition]
While you have the Prone condition, you experience 
the following effects.
 Restricted Movement. Your only movement op -
tions are to crawl or to spend an amount of move -
ment equal to half your Speed (round down) to 
right yourself and thereby end the condition. If your 
Speed is 0, you can’t right yourself.
 Attacks Affected.  You have Disadvantage on at-
tack rolls. An attack roll against you has Advantage 
if the attacker is within 5 feet of you. Otherwise, 
that attack roll has Disadvantage.
Reach
A creature has a reach of 5 feet unless a rule says 
otherwise.
Reaction
A Reaction is a special action taken in response to 
a trigger defined in the Reaction’s description. You 
can take a Reaction on another creature’s turn, and 
if you take it on your turn, you can do so even if you 
also take an action, a Bonus Action, or both. Once 
you take a Reaction, you can’t take another one 
until the start of your next turn. The Opportunity 
Attack is a Reaction available to all creatures. See 
also “Opportunity Attacks” and “Playing the Game” 
(“Actions”).
Ready [Action]
You take the Ready action to wait for a particular 
circumstance before you act. To do so, you take this 
action on your turn, which lets you act by taking a 
Reaction before the start of your next turn.
 First, you decide what perceivable circumstance 
will trigger your Reaction. Then, you choose the 
action you will take in response to that trigger, or 
you choose to move up to your Speed in response 
to it. Examples include “If the cultist steps on the 