System Reference Document 5.2.1
42
how you use those rules with Druid spells, which 
appear on the Druid spell list later in the class’s 
description.
 Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice 
from the Druid spell list. Druidcraft  and Produce 
Flame are recommended.
 Whenever you gain a Druid level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your 
choice from the Druid spell list.
 When you reach Druid levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another cantrip of your choice from the Druid spell 
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Druid 
Features table.
 Spell Slots. The Druid Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ 
spells. You regain all expended slots when you fin -
ish a Long Rest.
 Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the 
list of level 1+ spells that are available for you to 
cast with this feature. To start, choose four level 1 
spells from the Druid spell list. Animal Friendship , 
Cure Wounds, Faerie Fire, and Thunderwave are 
recommended.
 The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Druid levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Druid Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional spells from the 
Druid spell list until the number of spells on your 
list matches the number on the table. The chosen 
spells must be of a level for which you have spell 
slots. For example, if you’re a level 3 Druid, your list 
of prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1 
and 2 in any combination.
 If another Druid feature gives you spells that 
you always have prepared, those spells don’t count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Druid spells for you.
 Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
finish a Long Rest, you can change your list of pre -
pared spells, replacing any of the spells with other 
Druid spells for which you have spell slots.
 Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for your Druid spells.
 Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Druidic Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Druid spells.
Level 1: Druidic
You know Druidic, the secret language of Druids. 
While learning this ancient tongue, you also un -
locked the magic of communicating with animals; 
you always have the Speak with Animals  spell 
prepared.
 You can use Druidic to leave hidden messages. You 
and others who know Druidic automatically spot 
such a message. Others spot the message’s presence 
with a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check but can’t decipher it without magic.
Level 1: Primal Order
You have dedicated yourself to one of the following 
sacred roles of your choice.
 Magician.  You know one extra cantrip from the 
Druid spell list. In addition, your mystical connec -
tion to nature gives you a bonus to your Intelligence 
(Arcana or Nature) checks. The bonus equals your 
Wisdom modifier (minimum bonus of +1).
 Warden.  Trained for battle, you gain proficiency 
with Martial weapons and training with Medium 
armor.
Level 2: Wild Shape
The power of nature allows you to assume the form 
of an animal. As a Bonus Action, you shape-shift into 
a Beast form that you have learned for this feature 
(see “Known Forms” below). You stay in that form 
for a number of hours equal to half your Druid level 
or until you use Wild Shape again, have the Incapac -
itated condition, or die. You can also leave the form 
early as a Bonus Action.
 Number of Uses. You can use Wild Shape twice. 
You regain one expended use when you finish a 
Short Rest, and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest.
 You gain additional uses when you reach certain 
Druid levels, as shown in the Wild Shape column of 
the Druid Features table.
 Known Forms. You know four Beast forms for this 
feature, chosen from among Beast stat blocks that 
have a maximum Challenge Rating of 1/4 and that 
lack a Fly Speed (see “Animals” in “Monsters” for 
stat block options). The Rat, Riding Horse, Spider , 
and Wolf are recommended. Whenever you finish a 
Long Rest, you can replace one of your known forms 
with another eligible form.
 When you reach certain Druid levels, your number 
of known forms and the maximum Challenge Rating 
for those forms increases, as shown in the Beast 
Shapes table. In addition, starting at level 8, you can 
adopt a form that has a Fly Speed.
 When choosing known forms, you may look in 
other sources for eligible Beasts if the Game Master 
permits you to do so.
Beast Shapes
Druid
Level
Known
Forms
Max
CR
Fly 
Speed
2 4 1/4 No
4 6 1/2 No
8 8 1 Yes