System Reference Document 5.2.1
114
perceive the plane you left, which is cast in shades 
of gray, but you can’t see anything there more than 
60 feet away. You can affect and be affected only 
by other creatures on the Ethereal Plane, and crea-
tures on the other plane can’t perceive you unless 
they have a special ability that lets them perceive 
things on the Ethereal Plane.
 You return to the other plane at the start of your 
next turn and when the spell ends if you are on the 
Ethereal Plane. You return to an unoccupied space 
of your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the 
space you left. If no unoccupied space is available 
within that range, you appear in the nearest unoc -
cupied space.
Blur
Level 2 Illusion (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body becomes blurred. For the duration, any 
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls against 
you. An attacker is immune to this effect if it per -
ceives you with Blindsight or Truesight.
Burning Hands
Level 1 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A thin sheet of flames shoots forth from you. Each 
creature in a 15-foot Cone makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 3d6 Fire damage on a failed save or 
half as much damage on a successful one.
 Flammable objects in the Cone that aren’t being 
worn or carried start burning.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 1.
Call Lightning
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A storm cloud appears at a point within range that 
you can see above yourself. It takes the shape of a 
Cylinder that is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius.
 When you cast the spell, choose a point you can 
see under the cloud. A lightning bolt shoots from the 
cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet of 
that point makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 
3d10 Lightning damage on a failed save or half as 
much damage on a successful one.
 Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to 
call down lightning in that way again, targeting the 
same point or a different one.
 If you’re outdoors in a storm when you cast this 
spell, the spell gives you control over that storm in -
stead of creating a new one. Under such conditions, 
the spell’s damage increases by 1d10.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 3.
Calm Emotions
Level 2 Enchantment (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each Humanoid in a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered 
on a point you choose within range must succeed 
on a Charisma saving throw or be affected by one of 
the following effects (choose for each creature):
• The creature has Immunity to the Charmed and 
Frightened conditions until the spell ends. If the 
creature was already Charmed or Frightened, 
those conditions are suppressed for the duration.
• The creature becomes Indifferent about crea-
tures of your choice that it’s Hostile toward. This 
indifference ends if the target takes damage or 
witnesses its allies taking damage. When the spell 
ends, the creature’s attitude returns to normal.
Chain Lightning
Level 6 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (three silver pins)
Duration: Instantaneous
You launch a lightning bolt toward a target you can 
see within range. Three bolts then leap from that 
target to as many as three other targets of your 
choice, each of which must be within 30 feet of the 
first target. A target can be a creature or an object 
and can be targeted by only one of the bolts.
 Each target makes a Dexterity saving throw, tak -
ing 10d8 Lightning damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. One additional 
bolt leaps from the first target to another target for 
each spell slot level above 6.
Charm Monster
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour