System Reference Document 5.2.1
152
the target realizes that the phantasm is an illusion, 
and the spell ends.
 While affected by the spell, the target treats the 
phantasm as if it were real and rationalizes any il -
logical outcomes from interacting with it. For exam -
ple, if the target steps through a phantasmal bridge 
and survives the fall, it believes the bridge exists 
and something else caused it to fall.
 An affected target can even take damage from 
the illusion if the phantasm represents a dangerous 
creature or hazard. On each of your turns, such a 
phantasm can deal 2d8 Psychic damage to the tar -
get if it is in the phantasm’s area or within 5 feet of 
the phantasm. The target perceives the damage as a 
type appropriate to the illusion.
Phantasmal Killer
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You tap into the nightmares of a creature you can 
see within range and create an illusion of its deep -
est fears, visible only to that creature. The target 
makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target takes 4d10 Psychic damage and has Disad -
vantage on ability checks and attack rolls for the 
duration. On a successful save, the target takes half 
as much damage, and the spell ends.
 For the duration, the target makes a Wisdom sav -
ing throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed 
save, it takes the Psychic damage again. On a suc -
cessful save, the spell ends.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 4.
Phantom Steed
Level 3 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
A Large, quasi-real, horselike creature appears on 
the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice 
within range. You decide the creature’s appearance, 
and it is equipped with a saddle, bit, and bridle. Any 
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a 
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away 
from the steed.
 For the duration, you or a creature you choose 
can ride the steed. The steed uses the Riding Horse 
stat block (see “Monsters”), except it has a Speed of 
100 feet and can travel 13 miles in an hour. When 
the spell ends, the steed gradually fades, giving the 
rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends early if 
the steed takes any damage.
Planar Ally
Level 6 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The be -
ing must be known to you: a god, a demon prince, or 
some other being of cosmic power. That entity sends 
a Celestial, an Elemental, or a Fiend loyal to it to aid 
you, making the creature appear in an unoccupied 
space within range. If you know a specific creature’s 
name, you can speak that name when you cast this 
spell to request that creature, though you might get 
a different creature anyway (GM’s choice).
 When the creature appears, it is under no com -
pulsion to behave a particular way. You can ask it 
to perform a service in exchange for payment, but 
it isn’t obliged to do so. The requested task could 
range from simple (fly us across the chasm, or help 
us fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies, or 
protect us during our foray into the dungeon). You 
must be able to communicate with the creature to 
bargain for its services.
 Payment can take a variety of forms. A Celestial 
might require a sizable donation of gold or magic 
items to an allied temple, while a Fiend might de -
mand a living sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Some 
creatures might exchange their service for a quest 
undertaken by you.
 A task that can be measured in minutes requires a 
payment worth 100 GP per minute. A task measured 
in hours requires 1,000 GP per hour. And a task 
measured in days (up to 10 days) requires 10,000 
GP per day. The GM can adjust these payments 
based on the circumstances under which you cast 
the spell. If the task is aligned with the creature’s 
ethos, the payment might be halved or even waived. 
Nonhazardous tasks typically require only half the 
suggested payment, while especially dangerous 
tasks might require a greater gift. Creatures rarely 
accept tasks that seem suicidal.
 After the creature completes the task, or when the 
agreed-upon duration of service expires, the crea -
ture returns to its home plane after reporting back 
to you if possible. If you are unable to agree on a 
price for the creature’s service, the creature imme -
diately returns to its home plane.
Planar Binding
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a jewel worth 1,000+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: 24 hours