System Reference Document 5.2.1
70
Level 3: Draconic Spells
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Draconic Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared.
Draconic Spells
Sorcerer 
Level Spells
3 Alter Self, Chromatic Orb, Command, 
Dragon’s Breath
5 Fear, Fly
7 Arcane Eye, Charm Monster
9 Legend Lore, Summon Dragon
Level 6: Elemental Affinity
Your draconic magic has an affinity with a damage 
type associated with dragons. Choose one of those 
types: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Poison.
 You have Resistance to that damage type, and 
when you cast a spell that deals damage of that 
type, you can add your Charisma modifier to one 
damage roll of that spell.
Level 14: Dragon Wings
As a Bonus Action, you can cause draconic wings to 
appear on your back. The wings last for 1 hour or 
until you dismiss them (no action required). For the 
duration, you have a Fly Speed of 60 feet.
 Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest unless you spend 3 Sor -
cery Points (no action required) to restore your use 
of it.
Level 18: Dragon Companion
You can cast Summon Dragon without a Material 
component. You can also cast it once without a spell 
slot, and you regain the ability to cast it in this way 
when you finish a Long Rest.
 Whenever you start casting the spell, you can 
modify it so that it doesn’t require Concentration. If 
you do so, the spell’s duration becomes 1 minute for 
that casting.
Warlock
Core Warlock Traits
Primary Ability Charisma
Hit Point Die D8 per Warlock level
Saving Throw 
Proficiencies
Wisdom and Charisma
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Arcana, Deception, 
History, Intimidation, Investi -
gation, Nature, or Religion
Weapon Proficiencies Simple weapons
Armor Training Light armor
Starting Equipment Choose A or B: (A) Leather 
Armor, Sickle, 2 Daggers, Ar -
cane Focus (orb), Book (occult 
lore), Scholar’s Pack, and 15 
GP; or (B) 100 GP
Becoming a Warlock …
As a Level 1 Character
• Gain all the traits in the Core Warlock Traits table.
• Gain the Warlock’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Warlock Features table.
As a Multiclass Character
• Gain the following traits from the Core Warlock 
Traits table: Hit Point Die and training with Light 
armor.
• Gain the Warlock’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Warlock Features table. See the mul -
ticlassing rules in “Character Creation” to deter -
mine your available spell slots.
Warlock Class Features
As a Warlock, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Warlock levels. These 
features are listed in the Warlock Features table.
Level 1: Eldritch Invocations
You have unearthed Eldritch Invocations, pieces of 
forbidden knowledge that imbue you with an abid -
ing magical ability or other lessons. You gain one in -
vocation of your choice, such as Pact of the Tome. In -
vocations are described in the “Eldritch Invocation 
Options” section later in this class’s description.
 Prerequisites.  If an invocation has a prerequi -
site, you must meet it to learn that invocation. For 
example, if an invocation requires you to be a level 
5+ Warlock, you can select the invocation once you 
reach Warlock level 5.
 Replacing and Gaining Invocations. Whenever 
you gain a Warlock level, you can replace one of 
your invocations with another one for which you 