System Reference Document 5.2.1
185
move at least 10 feet immediately before the jump. 
When you make a standing Long Jump, you can leap 
only half that distance. Either way, each foot you 
jump costs a foot of movement.
 If you land in Difficult Terrain, you must succeed 
on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check or have the 
Prone condition.
 This Long Jump rule assumes that the height of 
the jump doesn’t matter, such as a jump across a 
stream or chasm. At your GM’s option, you must suc -
ceed on a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check to clear a 
low obstacle (no taller than a quarter of the jump’s 
distance), such as a hedge or low wall. Otherwise, 
you hit the obstacle.
Long Rest
A Long Rest is a period of extended downtime—at 
least 8 hours—available to any creature. During a 
Long Rest, you sleep for at least 6 hours and per -
form no more than 2 hours of light activity, such as 
reading, talking, eating, or standing watch.
 During sleep, you have the Unconscious condition. 
After you finish a Long Rest, you must wait at least 
16 hours before starting another one.
 Benefits of the Rest. To start a Long Rest, you 
must have at least 1 Hit Point. When you finish the 
rest, you gain the following benefits:
Regain All HP. You regain all lost Hit Points and all 
spent Hit Point Dice. If your Hit Point maximum 
was reduced, it returns to normal.
Ability Scores Restored.  If any of your ability 
scores were reduced, they return to normal.
Exhaustion Reduced.  If you have the Exhaustion 
condition, its level decreases by 1.
Special Feature.  Some features are recharged by a 
Long Rest. If you have such a feature, it recharges 
in the way specified in its description.
 Interrupting the Rest. A Long Rest is stopped by 
the following interruptions:
• Rolling Initiative
• Casting a spell other than a cantrip
• Taking any damage
• 1 hour of walking or other physical exertion
If you rested at least 1 hour before the interruption, 
you gain the benefits of a Short Rest. See also  “Short 
Rest.”
 You can resume a Long Rest immediately after an 
interruption. If you do so, the rest requires 1 addi -
tional hour per interruption to finish.
Magic [Action]
When you take the Magic action, you cast a spell 
that has a casting time of an action or use a feature 
or magic item that requires a Magic action to be 
activated.
 If you cast a spell that has a casting time of 1 min -
ute or longer, you must take the Magic action on 
each turn of that casting, and you must maintain 
Concentration while you do so. If your Concentra-
tion is broken, the spell fails, but you don’t expend a 
spell slot. See also  “Concentration.”
Magical Effect
An effect is magical if it is created by a spell, a magic 
item, or a phenomenon that a rule labels as magical.
Malnutrition [Hazard]
A creature needs an amount of food per day based 
on its size, as shown in the Food Needs per Day ta-
ble. A creature that eats but consumes less than half 
the required food for a day must succeed on a DC 
10 Constitution saving throw or gain 1 Exhaustion 
level at the day’s end. A creature that eats nothing 
for 5 days automatically gains 1 Exhaustion level at 
the end of the fifth day as well as an additional level 
at the end of each subsequent day without food.
 Exhaustion caused by malnutrition can’t be re -
moved until the creature eats the full amount of 
food required for a day. See also  “Exhaustion.”
Food Needs per Day
Size Food Size Food
Tiny 1/4 pound Large 4 pounds
Small 1 pound Huge 16 pounds
Medium 1 pound Gargantuan 64 pounds
Monster
A monster is a creature controlled by the GM, even 
if the creature is benevolent. See also  “Creature” and 
“NPC.”
Nonplayer Character
A nonplayer character (NPC) is a monster that has 
a personal name and a distinct personality. See also  
“Monster.”
Object
An object is a nonliving, distinct thing. Composite 
things, like buildings, comprise more than one ob -
ject. See also  “Breaking Objects.”
Occupied Space
A space is occupied if a creature is in it or if it is 
completely filled by objects.
Opportunity Attacks
You can make an Opportunity Attack when a crea-
ture that you can see leaves your reach using its 
action, its Bonus Action, its Reaction, or one of its 
speeds. To make the Opportunity Attack, take a Re -
action to make one melee attack with a weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike against the provoking creature. 
The attack occurs right before the creature leaves 
your reach. See also “Playing the Game” (“Combat”).