System Reference Document 5.2.1
129
Expeditious Retreat
Level 1 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You take the Dash action, and until the spell ends, 
you can take that action again as a Bonus Action.
Eyebite
Level 6 Necromancy (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, your eyes become an inky void. 
One creature of your choice within 60 feet of you 
that you can see must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or be affected by one of the following effects 
of your choice for the duration.
 On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can 
take a Magic action to target another creature but 
can’t target a creature again if it has succeeded on a 
save against this casting of the spell.
 Asleep. The target has the Unconscious condition. 
It wakes up if it takes any damage or if another 
creature takes an action to shake it awake.
 Panicked. The target has the Frightened con -
dition. On each of its turns, the Frightened target 
must take the Dash action and move away from you 
by the safest and shortest route available. If the tar -
get moves to a space at least 60 feet away from you 
where it can’t see you, this effect ends.
 Sickened. The target has the Poisoned condition.
Fabricate
Level 4 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You convert raw materials into products of the same 
material. For example, you can fabricate a wooden 
bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a patch of 
hemp, or clothes from flax or wool.
 Choose raw materials that you can see within 
range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object 
(contained within a 10-foot Cube or eight connected 
5-foot Cubes) given a sufficient quantity of mate -
rial. If you’re working with metal, stone, or another 
mineral substance, however, the fabricated object 
can be no larger than Medium (contained within a 
5-foot Cube). The quality of any fabricated objects is 
based on the quality of the raw materials.
 Creatures and magic items can’t be created by 
this spell. You also can’t use it to create items that 
require a high degree of skill—such as weapons and 
armor—unless you have proficiency with the type 
of Artisan’s Tools used to craft such objects.
Faerie Fire
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Objects in a 20-foot Cube within range are outlined 
in blue, green, or violet light (your choice). Each 
creature in the Cube is also outlined if it fails a Dex -
terity saving throw. For the duration, objects and 
affected creatures shed Dim Light in a 10-foot ra-
dius and can’t benefit from the Invisible condition.
 Attack rolls against an affected creature or object 
have Advantage if the attacker can see it.
Faithful Hound
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a silver whistle)
Duration: 8 hours
You conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied 
space that you can see within range. The hound 
remains for the duration or until the two of you are 
more than 300 feet apart from each other.
 No one but you can see the hound, and it is in -
tangible and invulnerable. When a Small or larger 
creature comes within 30 feet of it without first 
speaking the password that you specify when you 
cast this spell, the hound starts barking loudly. The 
hound has Truesight with a range of 30 feet.
 At the start of each of your turns, the hound at -
tempts to bite one enemy within 5 feet of it. That 
enemy must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or 
take 4d8 Force damage.
 On your later turns, you can take a Magic action to 
move the hound up to 30 feet.
False Life
Level 1 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a drop of alcohol)
Duration: Instantaneous
You gain 2d4 + 4 Temporary Hit Points.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You gain 5 addi -
tional Temporary Hit Points for each spell slot level 
above 1.