System Reference Document 5.2.1
148
Mass Healing Word
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see 
within range regain Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus 
your spellcasting ability modifier.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 1d4 for each spell slot level above 3.
Mass Suggestion
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a snake’s tongue)
Duration: 24 hours
You suggest a course of activity—described in no 
more than 25 words—to twelve or fewer creatures 
you can see within range that can hear and under -
stand you. The suggestion must sound achievable 
and not involve anything that would obviously deal 
damage to any of the targets or their allies. For 
example, you could say, “Walk to the village down 
that road, and help the villagers there harvest crops 
until sunset.” Or you could say, “Now is not the time 
for violence. Drop your weapons, and dance! Stop in 
an hour.”
 Each target must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or have the Charmed condition for the dura -
tion or until you or your allies deal damage to the 
target. Each Charmed target pursues the suggestion 
to the best of its ability. The suggested activity can 
continue for the entire duration, but if the sug -
gested activity can be completed in a shorter time, 
the spell ends for a target upon completing it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The duration is 
longer with a spell slot of level 7 (10 days), 8 (30 
days), or 9 (366 days).
Maze
Level 8 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You banish a creature that you can see within range 
into a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains 
there for the duration or until it escapes the maze.
 The target can take a Study action to try to es -
cape. When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence 
(Investigation) check. If it succeeds, it escapes, and 
the spell ends.
 When the spell ends, the target reappears in the 
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the near -
est unoccupied space.
Meld into Stone
Level 3 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You step into a stone object or surface large enough 
to fully contain your body, merging yourself and 
your equipment with the stone for the duration. 
You must touch the stone to do so. Nothing of your 
presence remains visible or otherwise detectable by 
nonmagical senses.
 While merged with the stone, you can’t see what 
occurs outside it, and any Wisdom (Perception) 
checks you make to hear sounds outside it are made 
with Disadvantage. You remain aware of the pas -
sage of time and can cast spells on yourself while 
merged in the stone. You can use 5 feet of movement 
to leave the stone where you entered it, which ends 
the spell. You otherwise can’t move.
 Minor physical damage to the stone doesn’t harm 
you, but its partial destruction or a change in its 
shape (to the extent that you no longer fit within it) 
expels you and deals 6d6 Force damage to you. The 
stone’s complete destruction (or transmutation into 
a different substance) expels you and deals 50 Force 
damage to you. If expelled, you move into an unoc -
cupied space closest to where you first entered and 
have the Prone condition.
Mending
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (two lodestones)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object 
you touch, such as a broken chain link, two halves of 
a broken key, a torn cloak, or a leaking wineskin. As 
long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot in 
any dimension, you mend it, leaving no trace of the 
former damage.
 This spell can physically repair a magic item, but 
it can’t restore magic to such an object.
Message
Transmutation Cantrip (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: S, M (a copper wire)
Duration: 1 round