System Reference Document 5.2.1
214
Boots of Speed
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While you wear these boots, you can take a Bonus 
Action to click the boots’ heels together. If you do, 
the boots double your Speed, and any creature that 
makes an Opportunity Attack against you has Dis -
advantage on the attack roll. If you click your heels 
together again, you end the effect.
 When you’ve used the boots’ property for a total 
of 10 minutes, the magic ceases to function for you 
until you finish a Long Rest.
Boots of Striding and Springing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While you wear these boots, your Speed becomes 
30 feet unless your Speed is higher, and your Speed 
isn’t reduced by you carrying weight in excess of 
your carrying capacity or wearing Heavy Armor.
 Once on each of your turns, you can jump up to 30 
feet by spending only 10 feet of movement.
Boots of the Winterlands
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
These furred boots are snug and feel warm. While 
wearing them, you gain the following benefits.
 Cold Resistance. You have Resistance to Cold 
damage and can tolerate temperatures of 0 degrees 
Fahrenheit or lower without any additional 
protection.
 Winter Strider. You ignore Difficult Terrain cre -
ated by ice or snow.
Bowl of Commanding Water Elementals
Wondrous Item, Rare 
While this bowl is filled with water and you are 
within 5 feet of it, you can take a Magic action to 
summon a Water Elemental . The elemental ap-
pears in an unoccupied space as close to the bowl 
as possible, understands your languages, obeys 
your commands, and takes its turn immediately 
after you on your Initiative count. The elemental 
disappears after 1 hour, when it dies, or when you 
dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The bowl can’t be used 
this way again until the next dawn.
 The bowl is about 1 foot in diameter and half as 
deep. It holds about 3 gallons.
Bracers of Archery
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing these bracers, you have proficiency 
with the Longbow and Shortbow, and you gain a +2 
bonus to damage rolls made with such weapons.
Bracers of Defense
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing these bracers, you gain a +2 bonus to 
Armor Class if you are wearing no armor and using 
no Shield.
Brazier of Commanding Fire Elementals
Wondrous Item, Rare 
While you are within 5 feet of this brazier, you can 
take a Magic action to summon a Fire Elemental . 
The elemental appears in an unoccupied space as 
close to the brazier as possible, understands your 
languages, obeys your commands, and takes its turn 
immediately after you on your Initiative count. The 
elemental disappears after 1 hour, when it dies, or 
when you dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The brazier 
can’t be used this way again until the next dawn.
Brooch of Shielding
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this brooch, you have Resistance to 
Force damage, and you have Immunity to damage 
from the Magic Missile spell.
Broom of Flying
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
This wooden broom functions like a mundane 
broom until you stand astride it and take a Magic 
action to make it hover beneath you, at which time 
it can be ridden in the air. It has a Fly Speed of 50 
feet. It can carry up to 400 pounds, but its Fly Speed 
becomes 30 feet while carrying over 200 pounds. 
The broom stops hovering when you land or when 
you’re no longer riding it.
 As a Magic action, you can send the broom to 
travel alone to a destination within 1 mile of you if 
you name the location and are familiar with it. The 
broom comes back to you when you take a Magic 
action and use a command word if the broom is still 
within 1 mile of you.
Candle of Invocation
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This candle’s magic is activated when the candle 
is lit, which requires a Magic action. After burning 
for 4 hours, the candle is destroyed. You can snuff 
it out early for use at a later time. Deduct the time 
it burned in increments of 1 minute from its total 
burn time.
 While lit, the candle sheds Dim Light in a 30-foot 
radius. While you are within that light, you have 
Advantage on D20 Tests. In addition, a Cleric or 
Druid in the light can cast level 1 spells they have 
prepared without expending spell slots.
 Alternatively, when you light the candle for the 
first time, you can cast Gate with it. Doing so de -
stroys the candle. The portal created by the spell 