System Reference Document 5.2.1
137
choice when you create the glyph) on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one.
 Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of 
level 3 or lower in the glyph by casting it as part of 
creating the glyph. The spell must target a single 
creature or an area. The spell being stored has no 
immediate effect when cast in this way.
 When the glyph is triggered, the stored spell 
takes effect. If the spell has a target, it targets the 
creature that triggered the glyph. If the spell affects 
an area, the area is centered on that creature. If the 
spell summons Hostile creatures or creates harmful 
objects or traps, they appear as close as possible to 
the intruder and attack it. If the spell requires Con -
centration, it lasts until the end of its full duration.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage of 
an explosive rune increases by 1d8 for each spell 
slot level above 3. If you create a spell glyph, you can 
store any spell of up to the same level as the spell 
slot you use for the Glyph of Warding.
Goodberry
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a sprig of mistletoe)
Duration: 24 hours
Ten berries appear in your hand and are infused 
with magic for the duration. A creature can take a 
Bonus Action to eat one berry. Eating a berry re -
stores 1 Hit Point, and the berry provides enough 
nourishment to sustain a creature for one day.
 Uneaten berries disappear when the spell ends.
Grease
Level 1 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of pork rind or butter)
Duration: 1 minute
Nonflammable grease covers the ground in a 10-
foot square centered on a point within range and 
turns it into Difficult Terrain for the duration.
 When the grease appears, each creature stand -
ing in its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving 
throw or have the Prone condition. A creature that 
enters the area or ends its turn there must also suc -
ceed on that save or fall Prone.
Greater Invisibility
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un -
til the spell ends.
Greater Restoration
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamond dust worth 100+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature and magically remove one of 
the following effects from it:
• 1 Exhaustion level
• The Charmed or Petrified condition
• A curse, including the target’s Attunement to a 
cursed magic item
• Any reduction to one of the target’s ability scores
• Any reduction to the target’s Hit Point maximum
Guardian of Faith
Level 4 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 8 hours
A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for 
the duration in an unoccupied space that you can 
see within range. The guardian occupies that space 
and is invulnerable, and it appears in a form appro -
priate for your deity or pantheon.
 Any enemy that moves to a space within 10 feet of 
the guardian for the first time on a turn or starts its 
turn there makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 
20 Radiant damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. The guardian vanishes 
when it has dealt a total of 60 damage.
Guards and Wards
Level 6 Abjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a silver rod worth 10+ GP)
Duration: 24 hours
You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square 
feet of floor space. The warded area can be up to 
20 feet tall, and you shape it as one 50-foot square, 
one hundred 5-foot squares that are contiguous, or 
twenty-five 10-foot squares that are contiguous.
 When you cast this spell, you can specify individu -
als that are unaffected by the spell’s effects. You can 
also specify a password that, when spoken aloud 
within 5 feet of the warded area, makes the speaker 
immune to its effects.