System Reference Document 5.2.1
235
extradimensional hole 10 feet deep. The cylindrical 
space within the hole exists on a different plane 
of existence, so it can’t be used to create open pas -
sages. Any creature inside an open Portable Hole  
can exit the hole by climbing out of it.
 You can take a Magic action to close a Portable 
Hole by taking hold of the edges of the cloth and 
folding it up. Folding the cloth closes the hole, and 
any creatures or objects within remain in the ex -
tradimensional space. No matter what’s in it, the 
hole weighs next to nothing.
 If the hole is folded up, a creature within the hole’s 
extradimensional space can take an action to make 
a DC 10 Strength (Athletics) check. On a successful 
check, the creature forces its way out and appears 
within 5 feet of the Portable Hole . A closed Portable 
Hole holds enough air for 1 hour of breathing, di -
vided by the number of breathing creatures inside.
 Placing a Portable Hole inside an extradimensional 
space created by a Bag of Holding, Handy Haversack, 
or similar item instantly destroys both items and 
opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates 
where the one item was placed inside the other. Any 
creature within 10 feet of the gate and not behind 
Total Cover is sucked through it and deposited in 
a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate 
then closes. The gate is one-way only and can’t be 
reopened.
Potion of Animal Friendship
Potion, Uncommon 
When you drink this potion, you can cast the level 
3 version of the Animal Friendship spell (save DC 13).
 Agitating this potion’s muddy liquid brings little 
bits into view: a fish scale, a hummingbird feather, a 
cat claw, or a squirrel hair.
Potion of Clairvoyance
Potion, Rare 
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of 
the Clairvoyance spell (no Concentration required).
 An eyeball bobs in this potion’s yellowish liquid 
but vanishes when the potion is opened.
Potion of Climbing
Potion, Common 
When you drink this potion, you gain a Climb Speed 
equal to your Speed for 1 hour. During this time, you 
have Advantage on Strength (Athletics) checks to 
climb.
 This potion is separated into brown, silver, and 
gray layers resembling bands of stone. Shaking the 
bottle fails to mix the colors.
Potion of Diminution
Potion, Rare 
When you drink this potion, you gain the “reduce” 
effect of the Enlarge/Reduce spell for 1d4 hours (no 
Concentration required).
 The red in the potion’s liquid continuously con -
tracts to a tiny bead and then expands to color the 
clear liquid around it. Shaking the bottle fails to in -
terrupt this process.
Potion of Flying
Potion, Very Rare 
When you drink this potion, you gain a Fly Speed 
equal to your Speed for 1 hour and can hover. If 
you’re in the air when the potion wears off, you fall 
unless you have some other means of staying aloft.
 This potion’s clear liquid floats at the top of its 
container and has cloudy white impurities drifting 
in it.
Potion of Gaseous Form
Potion, Rare 
When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of 
the Gaseous Form spell for 1 hour (no Concentration 
required) or until you end the effect as a Bonus 
Action.
 This potion’s container seems to hold fog that 
moves and pours like water.
Potion of Giant Strength
Potion, Rarity Varies 
When you drink this potion, your Strength score 
changes for 1 hour. The type of giant determines the 
score (see the table below). The potion has no effect 
on you if your Strength is equal to or greater than 
that score.
 This potion’s transparent liquid has floating in it a 
sliver of light resembling a giant’s fingernail.
Potion Str. Rarity
Potion of Giant Strength (hill) 21 Uncommon
Potion of Giant Strength (frost or 
stone)
23 Rare
Potion of Giant Strength (fire) 25 Rare
Potion of Giant Strength (cloud) 27 Very Rare
Potion of Giant Strength (storm) 29 Legendary
Potion of Growth
Potion, Uncommon 
When you drink this potion, you gain the “enlarge” 
effect of the Enlarge/Reduce spell for 10 minutes (no 
Concentration required).
 The red in the potion’s liquid continuously ex -
pands from a tiny bead to color the clear liquid 
around it and then contracts. Shaking the bottle 
fails to interrupt this process.