System Reference Document 5.2.1
157
image, and any noise it makes sounds hollow to the 
creature.
Protection from Energy
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has 
Resistance to one damage type of your choice: Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder.
Protection from Evil and Good
Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a flask of Holy Water worth 25+ 
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch 
is protected against creatures that are Aberrations, 
Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead. 
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures 
of those types have Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against the target. The target also can’t be pos -
sessed by or gain the Charmed or Frightened condi -
tions from them. If the target is already possessed, 
Charmed, or Frightened by such a creature, the tar -
get has Advantage on any new saving throw against 
the relevant effect.
Protection from Poison
Level 2 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a creature and end the Poisoned condi -
tion on it. For the duration, the target has Advan -
tage on saving throws to avoid or end the Poisoned 
condition, and it has Resistance to Poison damage.
Purify Food and Drink
Level 1 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You remove poison and rot from nonmagical food 
and drink in a 5-foot-radius Sphere centered on a 
point within range.
Raise Dead
Level 5 Necromancy (Bard, Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 500+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
With a touch, you revive a dead creature if it has 
been dead no longer than 10 days and it wasn’t Un -
dead when it died.
 The creature returns to life with 1 Hit Point. This 
spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected the 
creature at the time of death.
 This spell closes all mortal wounds, but it doesn’t 
restore missing body parts. If the creature is lack -
ing body parts or organs integral for its survival—
its head, for instance—the spell automatically fails.
 Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar -
get takes a −4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the 
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced 
by 1 until it becomes 0.
Ray of Enfeeblement
Level 2 Necromancy (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of enervating energy shoots from you to -
ward a creature within range. The target must 
make a Constitution saving throw. On a successful 
save, the target has Disadvantage on the next attack 
roll it makes until the start of your next turn.
 On a failed save, the target has Disadvantage on 
Strength-based D20 Tests for the duration. During 
that time, it also subtracts 1d8 from all its damage 
rolls. The target repeats the save at the end of each 
of its turns, ending the spell on a success.
Ray of Frost
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a 
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack 
against the target. On a hit, it takes 1d8 Cold dam -
age, and its Speed is reduced by 10 feet until the 
start of your next turn.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 
(4d8).