System Reference Document 5.2.1
7
Saving Throws
A saving throw—also called a save—represents an 
attempt to evade or resist a threat, such as a fiery 
explosion, a blast of poisonous gas, or a spell trying 
to invade your mind. You don’t normally choose to 
make a save; you must make one because your char -
acter or a monster (if you’re the GM) is at risk. A 
save’s result is detailed in the effect that caused it.
 If you don’t want to resist the effect, you can 
choose to fail the save without rolling.
Ability Modifier
Saving throws are named for the ability modifiers 
they use: a Constitution saving throw, a Wisdom 
saving throw, and so on. Different saving throws are 
used to resist different kinds of effects, as shown on 
the Saving Throw Examples table.
Saving Throw Examples
Ability Make a Save To …
Strength Physically resist direct force
Dexterity Dodge out of harm’s way
Constitution Endure a toxic hazard
Intelligence Recognize an illusion as fake
Wisdom Resist a mental assault
Charisma Assert your identity
Proficiency Bonus
You add your Proficiency Bonus to your saving 
throw if you have proficiency in that kind of save. 
See “Proficiency” later in “Playing the Game.”
Difficulty Class
The Difficulty Class for a saving throw is deter -
mined by the effect that causes it or by the GM. For 
example, if a spell forces you to make a save, the DC 
is determined by the caster’s spellcasting ability 
and Proficiency Bonus. Monster abilities that call 
for saves specify the DC.
Attack Rolls
An attack roll determines whether an attack hits 
a target. An attack roll hits if the roll equals or 
exceeds the target’s Armor Class. Attack rolls usu -
ally occur in battle, described in “Combat” later in 
“Playing the Game,” but the GM might also ask for 
an attack roll in other situations, such as an archery 
competition.
Ability Modifier
The Attack Roll Abilities table shows which ability 
modifier to use for different types of attack rolls.
Attack Roll Abilities
Ability Attack Type
Strength Melee attack with a weapon or an Un -
armed Strike (see “Rules Glossary”)
Dexterity Ranged attack with a weapon
Varies Spell attack (the ability used is determined 
by the spellcaster’s spellcasting feature, as 
explained in “Spells”)
Some features let you use different ability modifiers 
from those listed. For example, the Finesse property 
(see “Equipment”) lets you use Strength or Dexter -
ity with a weapon that has that property.
Proficiency Bonus
You add your Proficiency Bonus to your attack roll 
when you attack using a weapon you have profi -
ciency with, as well as when you attack with a spell. 
See “Proficiency” later in “Playing the Game” for 
more information about weapon proficiencies.
Armor Class
A creature’s Armor Class represents how well the 
creature avoids being wounded in combat. The AC 
of a character is determined at character creation 
(see “Character Creation”), whereas the AC of a 
monster appears in its stat block.
 Calculating AC. All creatures start with the same 
base AC calculation:
Base AC = 10 + the creature’s Dexterity modifier
A creature’s AC can then be modified by armor, 
magic items, spells, and more.
 Only One Base AC. Some spells and class features 
give characters a different way to calculate their AC. 
A character with multiple features that give differ -
ent ways to calculate AC must choose which one to 
use; only one base calculation can be in effect for a 
creature.
Rolling 20 or 1
If you roll a 20 on the d20 (called a “natural 20”) for 
an attack roll, the attack hits regardless of any mod -
ifiers or the target’s AC. This is called a Critical Hit 
(see “Combat” later in “Playing the Game”).
 If you roll a 1 on the d20 (a “natural 1”) for an at -
tack roll, the attack misses regardless of any modifi -
ers or the target’s AC.
Advantage/Disadvantage
Sometimes a D20 Test is modified by Advantage or 
Disadvantage. Advantage reflects the positive cir -
cumstances surrounding a d20 roll, while Disadvan -
tage reflects negative circumstances.
 You usually acquire Advantage or Disadvantage 
through the use of special abilities and actions. The 