System Reference Document 5.2.1
228
 Mastery (Legendary).  Your Proficiency Bonus in -
creases by 1 while this pale green prism orbits your 
head.
 Protection (Rare). You gain a +1 bonus to Armor 
Class while this dusty-rose prism orbits your head.
 Regeneration (Legendary). You regain 15 Hit 
Points at the end of each hour this pearly white 
spindle orbits your head if you have at least 1 Hit 
Point.
 Reserve (Rare). This vibrant purple prism stores 
spells cast into it, holding them until you use them. 
The stone can store up to 4 levels of spells at a time. 
When found, it contains 1d4 levels of stored spells 
chosen by the GM.
 Any creature can cast a spell of level 1 through 4 
into the stone by touching it as the spell is cast. The 
spell has no effect, other than to be stored in the 
stone. If the stone can’t hold the spell, the spell is 
expended without effect. The level of the slot used 
to cast the spell determines how much space it uses.
 While this stone orbits your head, you can cast 
any spell stored in it. The spell uses the slot level, 
spell save DC, spell attack bonus, and spellcast -
ing ability of the original caster but is otherwise 
treated as if you cast the spell. The spell cast from 
the stone is no longer stored in it, freeing up space.
 Strength (Very Rare). Your Strength increases by 
2, to a maximum of 20, while this pale blue rhom -
boid orbits your head.
 Sustenance (Rare). You don’t need to eat or drink 
while this clear spindle orbits your head.
Iron Bands
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This rusty iron sphere measures 3 inches in diame -
ter and weighs 1 pound. You can take a Magic action 
to throw the sphere at a Huge or smaller creature 
you can see within 60 feet of yourself. As the sphere 
moves through the air, it opens into a tangle of 
metal bands.
 Make a ranged attack roll with an attack bonus 
equal to your Dexterity modifier plus your Profi -
ciency Bonus. On a hit, the target has the Restrained 
condition until you take a Bonus Action to issue a 
command that releases it. Doing so or missing with 
the attack causes the bands to contract and become 
a sphere once more.
 A creature that can touch the bands, including the 
one Restrained, can take an action to make a DC 20 
Strength (Athletics) check to break the iron bands. 
On a successful check, the item is destroyed, and the 
Restrained creature is freed. On a failed check, any 
further attempts made by that creature automati -
cally fail until 24 hours have elapsed.
 Once the bands are used, they can’t be used again 
until the next dawn.
Iron Flask
Wondrous Item, Legendary 
While holding this brass-stoppered iron flask, you 
can take a Magic action to target a creature that 
you can see within 60 feet of yourself. If the flask 
is empty and the target is native to a plane of exis -
tence other than the one you’re on, the target must 
succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw or be 
trapped in the flask. If the target has been trapped 
by the flask before, it has Advantage on the save. 
Once trapped, a creature remains in the flask until 
released. The flask can hold only one creature at a 
time. A creature trapped in the flask doesn’t age and 
doesn’t need to breathe, eat, or drink.
 You can take a Magic action to remove the flask’s 
stopper and release the creature in the flask. The 
creature then obeys your commands for 1 hour, 
understanding those commands even if it doesn’t 
know the language in which the commands are 
given. If you issue no commands or give the crea-
ture a command that is likely to result in its death 
or imprisonment, it defends itself but otherwise 
takes no actions. At the end of the duration, the 
creature acts in accordance with its normal disposi -
tion and alignment.
 An Identify spell reveals if the flask contains a 
creature, but the only way to determine the type 
of creature is to open the flask. A newly discovered 
Iron Flask might already contain a creature chosen 
by the GM.
Javelin of Lightning
Weapon (Javelin), Uncommon 
Each time you make an attack roll with this magic 
weapon and hit, you can have it deal Lightning dam -
age instead of Piercing damage.
 Lightning Bolt. When you throw this weapon at 
a target no farther than 120 feet from you, you can 
forgo making a ranged attack roll and instead turn 
the weapon into a bolt of lightning. This bolt forms 
a 5-foot-wide Line between you and the target. The 
target and each other creature in the Line (exclud -
ing you) makes a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw, tak -
ing 4d6 Lightning damage on a failed save or half 
as much damage on a successful one. Immediately 
after dealing this damage, the weapon reappears in 
your hand. This property can’t be used again until 
the next dawn.
Lantern of Revealing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
While lit, this hooded lantern burns for 6 hours on 1 
pint of oil, shedding Bright Light in a 30-foot radius 
and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet. Invisible 
creatures and objects are visible as long as they are 
in the lantern’s Bright Light. You can take a Utilize 