System Reference Document 5.2.1
130
Fear
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a white feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature in a 30-foot Cone must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding 
and have the Frightened condition for the duration.
 A Frightened creature takes the Dash action and 
moves away from you by the safest route on each 
of its turns unless there is nowhere to move. If the 
creature ends its turn in a space where it doesn’t 
have line of sight to you, the creature makes a Wis -
dom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell 
ends on that creature.
Feather Fall
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you or a 
creature you can see within 60 feet of you falls
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down)
Duration: 1 minute
Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A 
falling creature’s rate of descent slows to 60 feet per 
round until the spell ends. If a creature lands before 
the spell ends, the creature takes no damage from 
the fall, and the spell ends for that creature.
Find Familiar
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour or Ritual
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (burning incense worth 10+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You gain the service of a familiar, a spirit that takes 
an animal form you choose: Bat, Cat, Frog, Hawk, 
Lizard, Octopus, Owl, Rat, Raven, Spider, Weasel, 
or another Beast that has a Challenge Rating of 0. 
Appearing in an unoccupied space within range, the 
familiar has the statistics of the chosen form (see 
“Monsters”), though it is a Celestial, Fey, or Fiend 
(your choice) instead of a Beast. Your familiar acts 
independently of you, but it obeys your commands.
 Telepathic Connection. While your familiar is 
within 100 feet of you, you can communicate with it 
telepathically. Additionally, as a Bonus Action, you 
can see through the familiar’s eyes and hear what it 
hears until the start of your next turn, gaining the 
benefits of any special senses it has.
 Finally, when you cast a spell with a range of 
touch, your familiar can deliver the touch. Your fa-
miliar must be within 100 feet of you, and it must 
take a Reaction to deliver the touch when you cast 
the spell.
 Combat. The familiar is an ally to you and your 
allies. It rolls its own Initiative and acts on its own 
turn. A familiar can’t attack, but it can take other 
actions as normal.
 Disappearance of the Familiar. When the famil -
iar drops to 0 Hit Points, it disappears. It reappears 
after you cast this spell again. As a Magic action, 
you can temporarily dismiss the familiar to a pocket 
dimension. Alternatively, you can dismiss it forever. 
As a Magic action while it is temporarily dismissed, 
you can cause it to reappear in an unoccupied space 
within 30 feet of you. Whenever the familiar drops 
to 0 Hit Points or disappears into the pocket dimen -
sion, it leaves behind in its space anything it was 
wearing or carrying.
 One Familiar Only. You can’t have more than one 
familiar at a time. If you cast this spell while you 
have a familiar, you instead cause it to adopt a new 
eligible form.
Find Steed
Level 2 Conjuration (Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Component: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You summon an otherworldly being that appears as 
a loyal steed in an unoccupied space of your choice 
within range. This creature uses the Otherworldly 
Steed stat block. If you already have a steed from 
this spell, the steed is replaced by the new one.
 The steed resembles a Large, rideable animal of 
your choice, such as a horse, a camel, a dire wolf, 
or an elk. Whenever you cast the spell, choose the 
steed’s creature type—Celestial, Fey, or Fiend—
which determines certain traits in the stat block.
 Combat. The steed is an ally to you and your al -
lies. In combat, it shares your Initiative count, and 
it functions as a controlled mount while you ride it 
(as defined in the rules on mounted combat). If you 
have the Incapacitated condition, the steed takes 
its turn immediately after yours and acts inde -
pendently, focusing on protecting you.
 Disappearance of the Steed.  The steed disap -
pears if it drops to 0 Hit Points or if you die. When 
it disappears, it leaves behind anything it was 
wearing or carrying. If you cast this spell again, you 
decide whether you summon the steed that disap -
peared or a different one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell 
slot’s level for the spell’s level in the stat block.