System Reference Document 5.2.1
201
condition for 1 hour. On a successful save, the crea-
ture takes half as much damage only.  
 Avoid. The trap doesn’t trigger if the lock is 
opened using a Knock spell or similar magic.
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Search action, a creature 
can examine the trapped lock and make a DC 15 
Wisdom (Perception) check, detecting the needle on 
a successful check. Once the trap is detected, a char -
acter can take an action to try to disarm the trap, 
doing so with a successful DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight 
of Hand) check. On a failed check, the creature trig -
gers the trap.
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing the damage and the save DC, as 
shown in the following table. 
Levels Poison Damage Save DC
5–10 11 (2d10) 13
11–16 22 (4d10) 15
17–20 55 (10d10) 17
Rolling Stone
Deadly Trap (Levels 11–16) or Nuisance Trap (Levels 
17–20)
Trigger:  A creature moves onto a pressure plate
Duration: Until the stone stops rolling
When a creature moves onto a hidden pressure 
plate, a 5-foot-radius orb of solid stone is released 
from a secret compartment and begins to roll. The 
stone and all creatures nearby roll Initiative; the 
stone gets a +8 bonus on its Initiative roll.
 On its turn, the stone moves 60 feet in one direc -
tion, changing course if redirected by an obstacle. 
The stone can move through creatures’ spaces, 
and creatures can move through the stone’s space, 
treating it as Difficult Terrain. Whenever the stone 
enters a creature’s space for the first time on a turn 
or a creature enters the stone’s space while the 
stone is rolling, that creature must succeed on a DC 
15 Dexterity saving throw or take 55 (10d10) Blud -
geoning damage and have the Prone condition.
 The stone stops when it hits a wall or similar 
barrier. It can’t go around corners, but creative 
dungeon builders incorporate curving turns into 
nearby passages that allow the stone to keep 
moving.
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Study action, a creature 
can examine the section of floor that forms the 
pressure plate and make a DC 15 Intelligence (In -
vestigation) check, deducing the pressure plate’s 
function on a successful check. Wedging an Iron 
Spike or a similar object under the pressure plate 
prevents the trap from triggering.
 Destroy the Stone.  The stone is a Large object 
that has AC 17, HP 100, a Damage Threshold of 10, 
and Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage.
 Slow the Stone. As an action, a creature can try to 
slow down the stone with a DC 20 Strength (Athlet -
ics) check. If the check is successful, the distance the 
stone moves on its turn is reduced by 15 feet. If that 
distance drops to 0, it stops moving and is no longer 
a threat.
Spiked Pit
Deadly Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature moves onto the pit’s lid
Duration: Instantaneous
A 10-foot-deep pit has a hinged lid constructed from 
material identical to the surrounding floor. When 
a creature moves onto the lid, it swings open like 
a trapdoor, causing the creature to fall into the pit, 
which has sharpened wooden or metal spikes at the 
bottom. The lid remains open thereafter.
 A creature that falls into the pit lands at the 
bottom and takes 3 (1d6) Bludgeoning damage 
from the fall plus 9 (2d8) Piercing damage from 
the spikes.
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Study action, a creature 
can examine the section of floor that forms the pit’s 
lid and make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investigation) 
check, detecting the pit on a successful check. Once 
the hidden pit is detected, an Iron Spike or a similar 
object can be wedged between the pit’s lid and the 
surrounding floor to prevent the lid from opening, 
thereby making it safe to cross. The cover can also 
be held shut using an Arcane Lock spell or similar 
magic.
 Escape. A creature needs a Climb Speed, climbing 
gear, or magic such as a Spider Climb spell to scale 
the pit’s smooth walls. You can make the pit easier 
to escape by adding cracks in the walls big enough 
to serve as handholds and footholds.
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing the pit’s depth and damage, as 
shown in the following table. 
Levels Pit Depth Damage
5–10 30 feet 10 (3d6) Bludgeoning plus 13 
(3d8) Piercing
11–16 60 feet 21 (6d6) Bludgeoning plus 36 
(8d8) Piercing
17–20 120 feet 42 (12d6) Bludgeoning plus 57 
(13d8) Piercing