System Reference Document 5.2.1
239
last as long as you maintain Concentration, up to 1 
minute. Each sphere sheds Dim Light in a 30-foot 
radius.
 As a Bonus Action, you can move each sphere up 
to 30 feet, but no farther than 120 feet away from 
yourself. The first time the sphere comes within 5 
feet of a creature other than you that isn’t behind 
Total Cover, the sphere discharges lightning at that 
creature and disappears. That creature makes a 
DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the 
creature takes Lightning damage based on the num -
ber of spheres you created, as shown in the follow -
ing table. On a successful save, the creature takes 
half as much damage.
Number of  
Spheres
Lightning 
Damage
Number of  
Spheres
Lightning 
Damage
1 4d12 3 2d6
2 5d4 4 2d4
 Shooting Stars. You can expend 1 to 3 charges as 
a Magic action. For every charge you expend, you 
launch a glowing mote of light from the ring at a 
point you can see within 60 feet of yourself. Each 
creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from that 
point is showered in sparks and makes a DC 15 
Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d4 Radiant damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc -
cessful one.
Ring of Spell Storing
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This ring stores spells cast into it, holding them un -
til the attuned wearer uses them. The ring can store 
up to 5 levels worth of spells at a time. When found, 
it contains 1d6 − 1 levels of stored spells chosen by 
the GM.
 Any creature can cast a spell of level 1 through 5 
into the ring by touching the ring as the spell is cast. 
The spell has no effect other than to be stored in the 
ring. If the ring can’t hold the spell, the spell is ex -
pended without effect. The level of the slot used to 
cast the spell determines how much space it uses.
 While wearing this ring, you can cast any spell 
stored in it. The spell uses the slot level, spell save 
DC, spell attack bonus, and spellcasting ability of 
the original caster but is otherwise treated as if you 
cast the spell. The spell cast from the ring is no lon -
ger stored in it, freeing up space.
Ring of Spell Turning
Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you have Advantage on 
saving throws against spells. If you succeed on the 
save for a spell of level 7 or lower, the spell has no 
effect on you. If that spell targeted only you and 
didn’t create an area of effect, you can take a Reac -
tion to deflect the spell back at the spell’s caster; the 
caster must make a saving throw against the spell 
using their own spell save DC.
Ring of Swimming
Ring, Uncommon 
You have a Swim Speed of 40 feet while wearing this 
ring.
Ring of Telekinesis
Ring, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can cast Telekinesis 
from it.
Ring of the Ram
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This ring has 3 charges and regains 1d3 expended 
charges daily at dawn. While wearing the ring, you 
can take a Magic action to expend 1 to 3 charges to 
make a ranged spell attack against one creature you 
can see within 60 feet of yourself. The ring produces 
a spectral ram’s head and makes its attack roll with 
a +7 bonus. On a hit, for each charge you spend, the 
target takes 2d10 Force damage and is pushed 5 
feet away from you.
 Alternatively, you can expend 1 to 3 of the ring’s 
charges as a Magic action to try to break a nonmag -
ical object you can see within 60 feet of yourself 
that isn’t being worn or carried. The ring makes 
a Strength check with a +5 bonus for each charge 
you spend.
Ring of Three Wishes
Ring, Legendary 
While wearing this ring, you can expend 1 of its 3 
charges to cast Wish from it. The ring becomes non-
magical when you use the last charge.
Ring of Warmth
Ring, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
If you take Cold damage while wearing this ring, the 
ring reduces the damage you take by 2d8.
 In addition, while wearing this ring, you and 
everything you wear and carry are unharmed by 
temperatures of 0 degrees Fahrenheit or lower.
Ring of Water Walking
Ring, Uncommon 
While wearing this ring, you cast Water Walk from 
it, targeting only yourself.
Ring of X-ray Vision
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can take a Magic ac -
tion to gain X-ray vision with a range of 30 feet for 
1 minute. To you, solid objects within that radius 
appear transparent and don’t prevent light from 
passing through them. The vision can penetrate 1 