System Reference Document 5.2.1
131
face a choice of paths along the way there, you know 
which path is the most direct.
Find Traps
Level 2 Divination (Cleric, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You sense any trap within range that is within line 
of sight. A trap, for the purpose of this spell, in -
cludes any object or mechanism that was created 
to cause damage or other danger. Thus, the spell 
would sense the Alarm or Glyph of Warding spell or a 
mechanical pit trap, but it wouldn’t reveal a natural 
weakness in the floor, an unstable ceiling, or a hid -
den sinkhole.
 This spell reveals that a trap is present but not its 
location. You do learn the general nature of the dan -
ger posed by a trap you sense.
Finger of Death
Level 7 Necromancy (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash negative energy toward a creature you 
can see within range. The target makes a Constitu -
tion saving throw, taking 7d8 + 30 Necrotic damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc -
cessful one.
 A Humanoid killed by this spell rises at the start 
of your next turn as a Zombie  (see “Monsters”) that 
follows your verbal orders.
Fireball
Level 3 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A bright streak flashes from you to a point you 
choose within range and then blossoms with a 
low roar into a fiery explosion. Each creature in a 
20-foot-radius Sphere centered on that point makes 
a Dexterity saving throw, taking 8d6 Fire damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc -
cessful one.
 Flammable objects in the area that aren’t being 
worn or carried start burning.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3.
Otherworldly Steed
Large Celestial, Fey, or Fiend (Your Choice), Neutral
AC 10 + 1 per spell level
HP 5 + 10 per spell level (the steed has a number of Hit 
Dice [d10s] equal to the spell’s level)
Speed 60 ft., Fly 60 ft. (requires level 4+ spell)
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
Str 18 +4 +4     dex 12 +1 +1 con 14 +2 +2
int 6 −2 −2 WiS 12 +1 +1 chA 8 −1 −1
Senses Passive Perception 11
Languages Telepathy 1 mile (works only with you)
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
Traits
Life Bond. When you regain Hit Points from a level 1+ 
spell, the steed regains the same number of Hit Points if 
you’re within 5 feet of it.
Actions
Otherworldly Slam. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals 
your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus the 
spell’s level of Radiant (Celestial), Psychic (Fey), or Ne-
crotic (Fiend) damage.
Bonus Actions
Fell Glare (Fiend Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). 
Wisdom Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, 
one creature within 60 feet the steed can see. Failure: 
The target has the Frightened condition until the end of 
your next turn.
Fey Step (Fey Only; Recharges after a Long Rest). The 
steed teleports, along with its rider, to an unoccupied 
space of your choice up to 60 feet away from itself.
Healing Touch (Celestial Only; Recharges after a Long 
Rest). One creature within 5 feet of the steed regains a 
number of Hit Points equal to 2d8 plus the spell’s level.
Find the Path
Level 6 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a set of divination tools—such as 
cards or runes—worth 100+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
You magically sense the most direct physical route 
to a location you name. You must be familiar with 
the location, and the spell fails if you name a desti -
nation on another plane of existence, a moving des -
tination (such as a mobile fortress), or an unspecific 
destination (such as “a green dragon’s lair”).
 For the duration, as long as you are on the same 
plane of existence as the destination, you know how 
far it is and in what direction it lies. Whenever you 