System Reference Document 5.2.1
233
Necklace of Fireballs
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This necklace has 1d6 + 3 beads hanging from it. 
You can take a Magic action to detach a bead and 
throw it up to 60 feet away. When it reaches the end 
of its trajectory, the bead detonates as a level 3 Fire-
ball (save DC 15).
 You can hurl multiple beads, or even the whole 
necklace, at one time. When you do so, increase the 
damage of the Fireball by 1d6 for each bead after 
the first (maximum 12d6).
Necklace of Prayer Beads
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement by a 
Cleric, Druid, or Paladin)
This necklace has 1d4 + 2 magic beads made from 
aquamarine, black pearl, or topaz. It also has many 
nonmagical beads made from stones such as amber, 
bloodstone, citrine, coral, jade, pearl, or quartz. If a 
magic bead is removed from the necklace, that bead 
loses its magic.
 Six types of magic beads exist. The GM decides the 
type of each bead on the necklace or determines it 
randomly by rolling on the table below. A necklace 
can have more than one bead of the same type. To 
use one, you must be wearing the necklace. Each 
bead contains a spell that you can cast from it as a 
Bonus Action (using your spell save DC if a save is 
necessary). Once a magic bead’s spell is cast, that 
bead can’t be used again until the next dawn.
1d20 Bead Spell
1–6 Bead of Blessing Bless
7–12 Bead of Curing Cure Wounds (level 2 
version)
13–16 Bead of Favor Greater Restoration
17–18 Bead of Smiting Shining Smite
19 Bead of Summons Guardian of Faith
20 Bead of Wind 
Walking
Wind Walk
Nine Lives Stealer
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Very Rare (Requires 
Attunement)
You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 Life Stealing. The weapon has 1d8 + 1 charges. 
When you attack a creature that has fewer than 
100 Hit Points with this weapon and roll a 20 on the 
d20 for the attack roll, the creature must succeed 
on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be slain 
instantly as the sword tears its life force from its 
body. Constructs and Undead succeed on the save 
automatically. The weapon loses 1 charge if the 
creature is slain. When the weapon has no charges 
remaining, it loses this property.
Oathbow
Weapon (Longbow or Shortbow), Very Rare (Requires 
Attunement)
When you nock an arrow on this bow, it whispers in 
Elvish, “Swift defeat to my enemies.” When you use 
this weapon to make a ranged attack, you can utter 
or sign the following command words: “Swift death 
to you who have wronged me.” The target of your 
attack becomes your sworn enemy until it dies or 
until dawn 7 days later. You can have only one such 
sworn enemy at a time. When your sworn enemy 
dies, you can choose a new one after the next dawn.
 When you make a ranged attack roll with this 
weapon against your sworn enemy, you have Ad -
vantage on the roll. In addition, your target gains no 
benefit from Half Cover or Three-Quarters Cover, 
and you suffer no Disadvantage due to long range. 
If the attack hits, your sworn enemy takes an extra 
3d6 Piercing damage.
 While your sworn enemy lives, you have Disad -
vantage on attack rolls with all other weapons.
Oil of Etherealness
Potion, Rare 
One vial of this oil can cover one Medium or smaller 
creature, along with the equipment it’s wearing and 
carrying (one additional vial is required for each 
size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes 
10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the 
effect of the Etherealness  spell for 1 hour.
 Beads of this cloudy, gray oil form on the outside 
of its container and quickly evaporate.
Oil of Sharpness
Potion, Very Rare 
One vial of this oil can coat one Melee weapon or 
twenty pieces of ammunition, but only ammunition 
and Melee weapons that are nonmagical and deal 
Slashing or Piercing damage are affected. Applying 
the oil takes 1 minute, after which the oil magically 
seeps into whatever it coats, turning the coated 
weapon into a +3 Weapon or the coated ammunition 
into +3 Ammunition.
 This clear, gelatinous oil sparkles with tiny, 
ultrathin silver shards.
Oil of Slipperiness
Potion, Uncommon 
One vial of this oil can cover one Medium or smaller 
creature, along with the equipment it’s wearing and 
carrying (one additional vial is required for each 
size category above Medium). Applying the oil takes 
10 minutes. The affected creature then gains the ef -
fect of the Freedom of Movement spell for 8 hours.
 Alternatively, the oil can be poured on the ground 
as a Magic action, where it covers a 10-foot square, 