System Reference Document 5.2.1
250
a maximum of 30. The manual then loses its magic 
but regains it in a century.
Tome of Understanding
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This book contains intuition and insight exercises, 
and its words are charged with magic. If you spend 
48 hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying 
the book’s contents and practicing its guidelines, 
your Wisdom increases by 2, to a maximum of 30. 
The manual then loses its magic, but regains it in 
a century.
Trident of Fish Command
Weapon (Trident), Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
This magic weapon has 3 charges, and it regains 
1d3 expended charges daily at dawn. While you 
carry it, you can expend 1 charge to cast Dominate 
Beast (save DC 15) from it on a Beast that has a 
Swim Speed.
Universal Solvent
Wondrous Item, Legendary 
This tube holds milky liquid with a strong alcohol 
smell. When found, a tube contains 1d6 + 1 ounces.
 You can take a Utilize action to pour 1 or more 
ounces of solvent from the tube onto a surface 
within reach. Each ounce instantly dissolves up to 1 
square foot of adhesive it touches, including Sover -
eign Glue.
Vicious Weapon
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Rare 
This magic weapon deals an extra 2d6 damage to 
any creature it hits. This extra damage is of the 
same type as the weapon’s normal damage.
Vorpal Sword
Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, or Scimitar), 
Legendary (Requires Attunement)
You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage 
rolls made with this magic weapon. In addition, the 
weapon ignores Resistance to Slashing damage.
 When you use this weapon to attack a creature 
that has at least one head and roll a 20 on the d20 
for the attack roll, you cut off one of the creature’s 
heads. The creature dies if it can’t survive without 
the lost head. A creature is immune to this effect 
if it has Immunity to Slashing damage, if it doesn’t 
have or need a head, or if the GM decides that the 
creature is too big for its head to be cut off with this 
weapon. Such a creature instead takes an extra 30 
Slashing damage from the hit. If the creature has 
Legendary Resistance, it can expend one daily use 
of that trait to avoid losing its head, taking the extra 
damage instead.
Wand of Binding
Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This wand has 7 charges.
 Spells. While holding the wand, you can cast one 
of the spells (save DC 17) on the following table 
from it. The table indicates how many charges you 
must expend to cast the spell.
Spell Charge 
Cost
Hold Monster 5
Hold Person 2
 Regaining Charges. The wand regains 1d6 + 
1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend 
the wand’s last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand 
crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.
Wand of Enemy Detection
Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can 
take a Magic action to expend 1 charge. For 1 min -
ute, you know the direction of the nearest creature 
Hostile to you within 60 feet, but not its distance 
from you. The wand can sense the presence of Hos -
tile creatures that are Invisible, ethereal, disguised, 
or hidden, as well as those in plain sight. The effect 
ends if you stop holding the wand.
 Regaining Charges. The wand regains 1d6 + 
1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend 
the wand’s last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand 
crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.
Wand of Fear
Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This wand has 7 charges.
 Spells. While holding the wand, you can cast one 
of the spells (save DC 15) on the following table 
from it. The table indicates how many charges you 
must expend to cast the spell.
 
Spell
Charge 
Cost
Command (“flee” or “grovel” only) 1
Fear (60-foot Cone) 3
 Regaining Charges. The wand regains 1d6 + 
1 expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend 
the wand’s last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the wand 
crumbles into ashes and is destroyed.
Wand of Fireballs
Wand, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Spellcaster)
This wand has 7 charges. While holding it, you can 
expend no more than 3 charges to cast Fireball (save 
DC 15) from it. For 1 charge, you cast the level 3 ver -
sion of the spell. You can increase the spell’s level by 
1 for each additional charge you expend.