System Reference Document 5.2.1
118
its turn there, you can force that creature to make 
a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the crea-
ture takes 3d10 Slashing damage. A creature makes 
this save only once per turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 3.
Conjure Celestial
Level 7 Conjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a spirit from the Upper Planes, which 
manifests as a pillar of light in a 10-foot-radius, 
40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a point within 
range. For each creature you can see in the Cylinder, 
choose which of these lights shines on it:
Healing Light.  The target regains Hit Points equal 
to 4d12 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Searing Light.  The target makes a Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 6d12 Radiant damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
Until the spell ends, Bright Light fills the Cylinder, 
and when you move on your turn, you can also move 
the Cylinder up to 30 feet.
 Whenever the Cylinder moves into the space of a 
creature you can see and whenever a creature you 
can see enters the Cylinder or ends its turn there, 
you can bathe it in one of the lights. A creature can 
be affected by this spell only once per turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing and 
damage increase by 1d12 for each spell slot level 
above 7.
Conjure Elemental
Level 5 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a Large, intangible spirit from the Ele -
mental Planes that appears in an unoccupied space 
within range. Choose the spirit’s element, which 
determines its damage type: air (Lightning), earth 
(Thunder), fire (Fire), or water (Cold). The spirit 
lasts for the duration.
 Whenever a creature you can see enters the spir -
it’s space or starts its turn within 5 feet of the spirit, 
you can force that creature to make a Dexterity sav -
ing throw if the spirit has no creature Restrained. 
On failed save, the target takes 8d8 damage of the 
spirit’s type, and the target has the Restrained 
condition until the spell ends. At the start of each 
of its turns, the Restrained target repeats the save. 
On a failed save, the target takes 4d8 damage of the 
spirit’s type. On a successful save, the target isn’t 
Restrained by the spirit.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.
Conjure Fey
Level 6 Conjuration (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure a Medium spirit from the Feywild in 
an unoccupied space you can see within range. 
The spirit lasts for the duration, and it looks like 
a Fey creature of your choice. When the spirit ap -
pears, you can make one melee spell attack against 
a creature within 5 feet of it. On a hit, the target 
takes Psychic damage equal to 3d12 plus your 
spellcasting ability modifier, and the target has the 
Frightened condition until the start of your next 
turn, with both you and the spirit as the source of 
the fear.
 As a Bonus Action on your later turns, you can 
teleport the spirit to an unoccupied space you can 
see within 30 feet of the space it left and make the 
attack against a creature within 5 feet of it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d12 for each spell slot level above 6.
Conjure Minor Elementals
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure spirits from the Elemental Planes that 
flit around you in a 15-foot Emanation for the dura-
tion. Until the spell ends, any attack you make deals 
an extra 2d8 damage when you hit a creature in the 
Emanation. This damage is Acid, Cold, Fire, or Light -
ning (your choice when you make the attack).
 In addition, the ground in the Emanation is Diffi -
cult Terrain for your enemies.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4.
Conjure Woodland Beings
Level 4 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure nature spirits that flit around you in a 
10-foot Emanation for the duration. Whenever the 
Emanation enters the space of a creature you can 