System Reference Document 5.2.1
11
NPC reacts. A cowardly bandit might buckle under 
threats of imprisonment. A stubborn merchant 
refuses to help if the characters badger her. A vain 
dragon laps up flattery.
 When interacting with an NPC, pay attention to 
the GM’s portrayal of the NPC’s personality. You 
might be able to learn an NPC’s goals and then use 
that information to influence the NPC.
 If you offer NPCs something they want or play 
on their sympathies, fears, or goals, you can form 
friendships, ward off violence, or learn a key piece 
of information. On the other hand, if you insult a 
proud warrior or speak ill of a noble’s allies, your 
efforts to convince or deceive will likely fail.
Ability Checks
Ability checks can be key in determining the out -
come of a social interaction. Your roleplaying efforts 
can alter an NPC’s attitude, but there might still be 
an element of chance if the GM wants dice to play 
a role in determining an NPC’s response to you. In 
such situations, the GM will typically ask you to 
take the Influence action.
 Pay attention to your skill proficiencies when 
thinking of how you will interact with an NPC; use 
an approach that relies on your group’s skill pro -
ficiencies. For example, if the group needs to trick 
a guard into letting them into a castle, the Rogue 
who is proficient in Deception should lead the 
discussion.
Exploration
Exploration involves delving into places that are 
dangerous and full of mystery. The rules in this sec -
tion detail some of the ways adventurers interact 
with the environment in such places.
Adventuring Equipment
As adventurers explore, their equipment can help 
them in many ways. For example, they can reach 
out-of-the-way places with a Ladder, perceive things 
they wouldn’t otherwise notice with a Torch or 
another light source, bypass locked doors and con -
tainers with Thieves’ Tools, and create obstacles for 
pursuers with Caltrops.
 See “Equipment” for rules on many items that are 
useful on adventures. The items in the“Tools” and 
“Adventuring Gear” sections are especially useful. 
The weapons in “Equipment” can also be used for 
more than battle; you could use a Quarterstaff, 
for example, to push a sinister-looking button that 
you’re reluctant to touch.
Vision and Light
Some adventuring tasks—such as noticing danger, 
hitting an enemy, and targeting certain spells—are 
affected by sight, so effects that obscure vision can 
hinder you, as explained below.
Obscured Areas
An area might be Lightly or Heavily Obscured. In a 
Lightly Obscured area—such as an area with Dim 
Light, patchy fog, or moderate foliage—you have 
Disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that 
rely on sight.
 A Heavily Obscured area—such as an area with 
Darkness, heavy fog, or dense foliage—is opaque. 
You have the Blinded condition (see “Rules Glos -
sary”) when trying to see something there.
Light
The presence or absence of light determines the cat -
egory of illumination in an area, as defined below.
 Bright Light. Bright Light lets most creatures see 
normally. Even gloomy days provide Bright Light, as 
do torches, lanterns, fires, and other sources of illu -
mination within a specific radius.
 Dim Light. Dim Light, also called shadows, cre -
ates a Lightly Obscured area. An area of Dim Light 
is usually a boundary between Bright Light and 
surrounding Darkness. The soft light of twilight and 
dawn also counts as Dim Light. A full moon might 
bathe the land in Dim Light.
 Darkness.  Darkness creates a Heavily Obscured 
area. Characters face Darkness outdoors at night 
(even most moonlit nights), within the confines of 
an unlit dungeon, or in an area of magical Darkness.
Special Senses
Some creatures have special senses that help them 
perceive things in certain situations. “Rules Glos -
sary” defines the following special senses:
Blindsight
Darkvision
Tremorsense
Truesight
Hiding
Adventurers and monsters often hide, whether to 
spy on one another, sneak past a guardian, or set an 
ambush. The Game Master decides when circum -
stances are appropriate for hiding. When you try to 
hide, you take the Hide action.
Interacting with Objects
Interacting with objects is often simple to resolve. 
The player tells the GM that their character is do -
ing something, such as moving a lever or opening 