System Reference Document 5.2.1
178
Object Armor Class
AC Substance AC Substance
11 Cloth, paper, rope 19 Iron, steel
13 Crystal, glass, ice 21 Mithral
15 Wood 23 Adamantine
17 Stone
 Hit Points. An object is destroyed when it has 0 
Hit Points. The Object Hit Points table suggests Hit 
Points for fragile and resilient objects that are Large 
or smaller. To track Hit Points for a Huge or Gargan -
tuan object, divide it into Large or smaller sections, 
and track each section’s Hit Points separately. The 
GM determines whether destroying part of an ob -
ject causes the whole thing to collapse.
Object Hit Points
Size Fragile Resilient
Tiny (bottle, lock) 2 (1d4) 5 (2d4)
Small (chest, lute) 3 (1d6) 10 (3d6)
Medium (barrel, chandelier) 4 (1d8) 18 (4d8)
Large (cart, dining table) 5 (1d10) 27 (5d10)
 Damage Types and Objects. Objects have Immu -
nity to Poison and Psychic damage. The GM might 
decide that some damage types are more or less ef -
fective against an object. For example, Bludgeoning 
damage works well for smashing things but not for 
cutting. Paper or cloth objects might have Vulnera-
bility to Fire damage.
 Damage Threshold. Big objects, such as castle 
walls, often have extra resilience represented by a 
damage threshold. See also  “Damage Threshold.”
 No Ability Scores. An object lacks ability scores 
unless a rule assigns scores to the object. Without 
ability scores, an object can’t make ability checks, 
and it fails all saving throws.
Bright Light
Bright Light is normal illumination. See also  “Play-
ing the Game” (“Exploration”).
Burning [Hazard]
A burning creature or object takes 1d4 Fire damage 
at the start of each of its turns. As an action, you 
can extinguish fire on yourself by giving yourself 
the Prone condition and rolling on the ground. 
The fire also goes out if it is doused, submerged, or 
suffocated.
Burrow Speed
A creature that has a Burrow Speed can use that 
speed to move through sand, earth, mud, or ice. The 
creature can’t burrow through solid rock unless the 
creature has a trait that allows it to do so. See also  
“Speed.”
Campaign
A campaign is a series of adventures. See also  
“Adventure.”
Cantrip
A cantrip is a level 0 spell, which is cast without a 
spell slot. See also  “Spells.”
Carrying Capacity
Your size and Strength score determine the maxi -
mum weight in pounds that you can carry, as shown 
in the Carrying Capacity table. The table also shows 
the maximum weight you can drag, lift, or push.
 While dragging, lifting, or pushing weight in ex -
cess of the maximum weight you can carry, your 
Speed can be no more than 5 feet.
Carrying Capacity
Creature Size Carry Drag/Lift/Push
Tiny Str. × 7.5 lb. Str. × 15 lb.
Small/Medium Str. × 15 lb. Str. × 30 lb.
Large Str. × 30 lb. Str. × 60 lb.
Huge Str. × 60 lb. Str. × 120 lb.
Gargantuan Str. × 120 lb. Str. × 240 lb.
Challenge Rating
Challenge Rating (CR) summarizes the threat a 
monster poses to a group of four player characters. 
Compare a monster’s CR to the characters’ level. If 
the CR is higher, the monster is likely a danger. If the 
CR is lower, the monster likely poses little threat. 
But circumstances and the number of player charac -
ters can significantly alter how threatening a mon -
ster is in actual play. “Gameplay Toolbox” (“Combat 
Encounters”) provides guidance to the GM on using 
CR while planning potential combat encounters. See 
also “Stat Block.”
Character Sheet
A character sheet is a paper or digital record that 
you use to track your character’s information. See 
also “Character Creation.”
Charmed [Condition]
While you have the Charmed condition, you experi -
ence the following effects.
 Can’t Harm the Charmer. You can’t attack the 
charmer or target the charmer with damaging abili -
ties or magical effects.
 Social Advantage. The charmer has Advantage on 
any ability check to interact with you socially.
Climbing
While you’re climbing, each foot of movement costs 
1 extra foot (2 extra feet in Difficult Terrain). You 
ignore this extra cost if you have a Climb Speed and 
use it to climb.