System Reference Document 5.2.1
107
Spell Descriptions
Acid Arrow
Level 2 Evocation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (powdered rhubarb leaf)
Duration: Instantaneous
A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a target 
within range and bursts in a spray of acid. Make a 
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the 
target takes 4d4 Acid damage and 2d4 Acid dam -
age at the end of its next turn. On a miss, the arrow 
splashes the target with acid for half as much of the 
initial damage only.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage 
(both initial and later) increases by 1d4 for each 
spell slot level above 2.
Acid SplASh
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create an acidic bubble at a point within range, 
where it explodes in a 5-foot-radius Sphere. Each 
creature in that Sphere must succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw or take 1d6 Acid damage.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 
(4d6).
Aid
Level 2 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger) 
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a strip of white cloth)
Duration: 8 hours
Choose up to three creatures within range. Each 
target’s Hit Point maximum and current Hit Points 
increase by 5 for the duration.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Each target’s Hit 
Points increase by 5 for each spell slot level above 2.
Alarm
Level 1 Abjuration (Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bell and silver wire)
Duration: 8 hours
You set an alarm against intrusion. Choose a door, 
a window, or an area within range that is no larger 
than a 20-foot Cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm 
alerts you whenever a creature touches or enters 
the warded area. When you cast the spell, you can 
designate creatures that won’t set off the alarm. You 
also choose whether the alarm is audible or mental:
Audible Alarm.  The alarm produces the sound of 
a handbell for 10 seconds within 60 feet of the 
warded area.
Mental Alarm.  You are alerted by a mental ping 
if you are within 1 mile of the warded area. This 
ping awakens you if you’re asleep.
Alter Self
Level 2 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You alter your physical form. Choose one of the 
following options. Its effects last for the duration, 
during which you can take a Magic action to replace 
the option you chose with a different one.
 Aquatic Adaptation. You sprout gills and grow 
webs between your fingers. You can breathe under -
water and gain a Swim Speed equal to your Speed.
 Change Appearance. You alter your appear-
ance. You decide what you look like, including your 
height, weight, facial features, sound of your voice, 
hair length, coloration, and other distinguishing 
characteristics. You can make yourself appear as 
a member of another species, though none of your 
statistics change. You can’t appear as a creature of a 
different size, and your basic shape stays the same; 
if you’re bipedal, you can’t use this spell to become 
quadrupedal, for instance. For the duration, you can 
take a Magic action to change your appearance in 
this way again.
 Natural Weapons. You grow claws (Slashing), 
fangs (Piercing), horns (Piercing), or hooves (Blud -
geoning). When you use your Unarmed Strike to 
deal damage with that new growth, it deals 1d6 
damage of the type in parentheses instead of deal -
ing the normal damage for your Unarmed Strike, 
and you use your spellcasting ability modifier 
for the attack and damage rolls rather than using 
Strength.
Animal Friendship
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
Target a Beast that you can see within range. The 
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or 
have the Charmed condition for the duration. If you 