System Reference Document 5.2.1
117
doesn’t function where nature has been replaced by 
construction, such as in castles and settlements.
 Choose three of the following facts; you learn 
those facts as they pertain to the spell’s area:
• Locations of settlements
• Locations of portals to other planes of existence
• Location of one Challenge Rating 10+ creature 
(GM’s choice) that is a Celestial, an Elemental, a 
Fey, a Fiend, or an Undead
• The most prevalent kind of plant, mineral, or 
Beast (you choose which to learn)
• Locations of bodies of water
For example, you could determine the location of a 
powerful monster in the area, the locations of bod -
ies of water, and the locations of any towns.
Comprehend Languages
Level 1 Divination (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of soot and salt)
Duration: 1 hour
For the duration, you understand the literal mean-
ing of any language that you hear or see signed. You 
also understand any written language that you see, 
but you must be touching the surface on which the 
words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read 
one page of text. This spell doesn’t decode symbols 
or secret messages.
Compulsion
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature of your choice that you can see within 
range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or 
have the Charmed condition until the spell ends.
 For the duration, you can take a Bonus Action to 
designate a direction that is horizontal to you. Each 
Charmed target must use as much of its movement 
as possible to move in that direction on its next 
turn, taking the safest route. After moving in this 
way, a target repeats the save, ending the spell on 
itself on a success.
Cone of Cold
Level 5 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a small crystal or glass cone)
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a blast of cold air. Each creature in 
a 60-foot Cone originating from you makes a 
Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Cold damage 
on a failed save or half as much damage on a suc -
cessful one. A creature killed by this spell becomes 
a frozen statue until it thaws.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.
Confusion
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (three nut shells)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each creature in a 10-foot-radius Sphere centered 
on a point you choose within range must succeed on 
a Wisdom saving throw, or that target can’t take Bo -
nus Actions or Reactions and must roll 1d10 at the 
start of each of its turns to determine its behavior 
for that turn, consulting the table below.
1d10 Behavior for the Turn
1 The target doesn’t take an action, and it uses all 
its movement to move. Roll 1d4 for the direc -
tion: 1, north; 2, east; 3, south; or 4, west.
2–6 The target doesn’t move or take actions.
7–8 The target doesn’t move, and it takes the At -
tack action to make one melee attack against 
a random creature within reach. If none are 
within reach, the target takes no action.
9–10 The target chooses its behavior.
 At the end of each of its turns, an affected target 
repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a 
success.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The Sphere’s 
radius increases by 5 feet for each spell slot level 
above 4.
Conjure Animals
Level 3 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You conjure nature spirits that appear as a Large 
pack of spectral, intangible animals in an unoccu -
pied space you can see within range. The pack lasts 
for the duration, and you choose the spirits’ animal 
form, such as wolves, serpents, or birds.
 You have Advantage on Strength saving throws 
while you’re within 5 feet of the pack, and when you 
move on your turn, you can also move the pack up 
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
 Whenever the pack moves within 10 feet of a crea-
ture you can see and whenever a creature you can 
see enters a space within 10 feet of the pack or ends 