System Reference Document 5.2.1
190
Target
A target is the creature or object targeted by an 
attack roll, forced to make a saving throw by an 
effect, or selected to receive the effects of a spell or 
another phenomenon.
Telepathy
Telepathy is a magical ability that allows a creature 
to communicate mentally with another creature 
within a specified range. Unless a rule states other -
wise, the contacted creature doesn’t need to share a 
language with the telepath to understand this com -
munication, but the contacted creature must be able 
to understand at least one language or be telepathic 
itself to understand.
 A telepath doesn’t need to see a contacted crea-
ture, and the telepath can start or end the telepathic 
contact at any time (no action required). Telepathic 
contact can’t be initiated and is immediately broken 
if either the telepath or the other creature has the 
Incapacitated condition. Telepathic contact is also 
broken if the contacted creature is no longer within 
the telepathy’s range or if the telepath contacts a 
different creature within range.
 A creature without telepathy can receive tele -
pathic messages but can’t initiate a telepathic con -
versation. Once a telepathic conversation starts, 
the non-telepath can communicate mentally to the 
telepath until the telepathic connection ends.
Teleportation
Teleportation is a special kind of magical transpor -
tation. If you teleport, you disappear and reappear 
elsewhere instantly, without moving through the 
intervening space. This transportation doesn’t ex -
pend movement unless a rule tells you otherwise, 
and teleportation never provokes Opportunity 
Attacks.
 When you teleport, all the equipment you’re 
wearing and carrying teleports with you. If you’re 
touching another creature when you teleport, that 
creature doesn’t teleport with you unless the tele -
portation effect says otherwise.
 If the destination space of your teleportation is 
occupied by another creature or blocked by a solid 
obstacle, you instead appear in the nearest unoccu -
pied space of your choice.
 The description of a teleportation effect tells you 
if you must see the teleportation’s destination.
Temporary Hit Points
Temporary Hit Points are granted by certain effects 
and act as a buffer against losing real Hit Points. See 
also “Playing the Game” (“Damage and Healing”).
Tremorsense
A creature with Tremorsense can pinpoint the loca-
tion of creatures and moving objects within a spe -
cific range, provided that the creature with Trem -
orsense and anything it is detecting are both in 
contact with the same surface (such as the ground, 
a wall, or a ceiling) or the same liquid.
 Tremorsense can’t detect creatures or objects in 
the air, and it doesn’t count as a form of sight.
Truesight
If you have Truesight, your vision is enhanced 
within a specified range. Within that range, your 
vision pierces through the following:
Darkness. You can see in normal and magical 
Darkness.
Invisibility. You see creatures and objects that have 
the Invisible condition.
Visual Illusions. Visual illusions appear transpar -
ent to you, and you automatically succeed on sav -
ing throws against them.
Transformations.  You discern the true form of any 
creature or object you see that has been trans -
formed by magic.
Ethereal Plane.  You see into the Ethereal Plane. 
Unarmed Strike
Instead of using a weapon to make a melee attack, 
you can use a punch, kick, headbutt, or similar 
forceful blow. In game terms, this is an Unarmed 
Strike—a melee attack that involves you using your 
body to damage, grapple, or shove a target within 5 
feet of you.
 Whenever you use your Unarmed Strike, choose 
one of the following options for its effect.
 Damage.  You make an attack roll against the 
target. Your bonus to the roll equals your Strength 
modifier plus your Proficiency Bonus. On a hit, the 
target takes Bludgeoning damage equal to 1 plus 
your Strength modifier.
 Grapple.  The target must succeed on a Strength 
or Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or it 
has the Grappled condition. The DC for the saving 
throw and any escape attempts equals 8 plus your 
Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus. This grap -
ple is possible only if the target is no more than one 
size larger than you and if you have a hand free to 
grab it. See also  “Grappling.”
 Shove.  The target must succeed on a Strength or 
Dexterity saving throw (it chooses which), or you ei -
ther push it 5 feet away or cause it to have the Prone 
condition. The DC for the saving throw equals 8 plus 
your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus. This 
shove is possible only if the target is no more than 
one size larger than you.