System Reference Document 5.2.1
105
 Some spells, such as Magic Missile  and Cure 
Wounds, have more powerful effects when cast at a 
higher level, as detailed in a spell’s description.
School of Magic
Each spell belongs to a school of magic. The schools 
are listed in the Schools of Magic table. These cate -
gories help describe spells but have no rules of their 
own, although some other rules refer to them.
Schools of Magic
School Typical Effects
Abjuration Prevents or reverses harmful effects
Conjuration Transports creatures or objects
Divination Reveals information
Enchantment Influences minds
Evocation Channels energy to create effects that 
are often destructive
Illusion Deceives the mind or senses
Necromancy Manipulates life and death
Transmutation Transforms creatures or objects
Class Spell Lists
If a spell is on a class’s spell list, the class’s name 
appears in parentheses after the spell’s school of 
magic. Some features add a spell to a character’s 
spell list even if the character isn’t a member of a 
class in the parentheses.
Casting Time
Most spells require the Magic action to cast, but 
some spells require a Bonus Action, a Reaction, or 1 
minute or more. A spell’s Casting Time entry speci -
fies which of those is required.
One Spell with a Spell Slot per Turn
On a turn, you can expend only one spell slot to cast 
a spell. This rule means you can’t, for example, cast 
a spell with a spell slot using the Magic action and 
another one using a Bonus Action on the same turn.
Reaction and Bonus Action Triggers
A spell that has a casting time of a Reaction is cast 
in response to a trigger that is defined in the spell’s 
Casting Time entry. Some spells that have a casting 
time of a Bonus Action are also cast in response to a 
trigger defined in the spell.
Longer Casting Times
Certain spells—including a spell cast as a Rit -
ual—require more time to cast: minutes or even 
hours. While you cast a spell with a casting time of 
1 minute or more, you must take the Magic action 
on each of your turns, and you must maintain Con -
centration (see “Rules Glossary”) while you do so. If 
your Concentration is broken, the spell fails, but you 
don’t expend a spell slot. To cast the spell again, you 
must start over.
Range
A spell’s range indicates how far from the spell -
caster the spell’s effect can originate, and the spell’s 
description specifies which part of the effect is lim -
ited by the range.
 A range usually takes one of the following forms:
Distance.  The range is expressed in feet.
Touch. The spell’s effect originates on something, 
as defined by the spell, that the spellcaster must 
touch within their reach.
Self. The spell is cast on the spellcaster or emanates 
from them, as specified in the spell.
If a spell has movable effects, they aren’t restricted 
by its range unless the spell’s description says 
otherwise.
Components
A spell’s components are physical requirements the 
spellcaster must meet to cast the spell. Each spell’s 
description indicates whether it requires Verbal 
(V), Somatic (S), or Material (M) components. If the 
spellcaster can’t provide one or more of a spell’s 
components, the spellcaster can’t cast the spell.
Verbal (V)
A Verbal component is the chanting of esoteric 
words that sound like nonsense to the uninitiated. 
The words must be uttered in a normal speaking 
voice. The words themselves aren’t the source of the 
spell’s power; rather, the particular combination of 
sounds, with specific pitch and resonance, sets the 
threads of magic in motion. Thus, a creature who is 
gagged or in an area of magical silence can’t cast a 
spell with a Verbal component.
Somatic (S)
A Somatic component is a forceful gesticulation 
or an intricate set of gestures. A spellcaster must 
use at least one of their hands to perform these 
movements.
Material (M)
A Material component is a particular material used 
in a spell’s casting, as specified in parentheses in 
the Components entry. These materials aren’t con -
sumed by the spell unless the spell’s description 
states otherwise. The spellcaster must have a hand 
free to access them, but it can be the same hand 
used to perform Somatic components, if any.
 If a spell doesn’t consume its materials and 
doesn’t specify a cost for them, a spellcaster can use 
a Component Pouch (see “Equipment”) instead of 
providing the materials specified in the spell, or the 