System Reference Document 5.2.1
220
Efreeti Bottle
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
When you take a Magic action to remove the stopper 
of this painted brass bottle, a cloud of thick smoke 
flows out of it. At the end of your turn, the smoke dis-
appears with a flash of harmless fire, and an Efreeti 
appears in an unoccupied space within 30 feet of you.
 The first time the bottle is opened, the GM rolls on 
the following table to determine what happens.
1d10 Effect
1 The efreeti attacks you. After fighting for 5 
rounds, the efreeti disappears, and the bottle 
loses its magic.
2–9 The efreeti understands your languages and 
obeys your commands for 1 hour, after which 
it returns to the bottle, and a new stopper 
contains it. The stopper can’t be removed for 
24 hours. The next two times the bottle is 
opened, the same effect occurs. If the bottle is 
opened a fourth time, the efreeti escapes and 
disappears, and the bottle loses its magic.
10 The efreeti understands your languages and can 
cast Wish once for you. It disappears when it 
grants the wish or after 1 hour, and the bottle 
loses its magic.
Elemental Gem
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This gem contains a mote of elemental energy. 
When you take a Utilize action to break the gem, 
an elemental is summoned (see “Monsters” for its 
stat block), and the gem ceases to be magical. The 
elemental appears in an unoccupied space as close 
to the broken gem as possible, understands your 
languages, obeys your commands, and takes its 
turn immediately after you on your Initiative count. 
The elemental disappears after 1 hour, when it dies, 
or when you dismiss it as a Bonus Action. The type 
of gem determines the elemental, as shown in the 
following table.
Gem Summoned Elemental
Blue sapphire Air Elemental
Emerald Water Elemental
Red corundum Fire Elemental
Yellow diamond Earth Elemental
Elixir of Health
Potion, Rare 
When you drink this potion, you are cured of all 
magical contagions. In addition, the following con -
ditions end on you: Blinded, Deafened, Paralyzed, 
and Poisoned.
 The clear, red liquid has tiny bubbles of light in it.
Elven Chain
Armor (Chain Mail or Chain Shirt), Rare 
You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class while you wear 
this armor. You are considered trained with this ar -
mor even if you lack training with Medium or Heavy 
armor.
Energy Bow
Weapon (Longbow or Shortbow), Very Rare (Requires 
Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon, which has no string. 
Each time you pull your arm back in a firing motion, 
a magical arrow made of golden energy appears 
nocked and ready to fire. An arrow produced by 
this weapon deals Force damage instead of Pierc -
ing damage on a hit, and it disappears after it hits 
or misses its target. Until it disappears, the arrow 
emits Bright Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light 
for an additional 20 feet.
 This weapon has the following additional 
properties.
 Arrow of Restraint. Whenever you use this 
weapon to make a ranged attack against a creature, 
you can try to restrain the target instead of deal -
ing damage to it. If the arrow hits, the target must 
succeed on a DC 15 Strength saving throw or have 
the Restrained condition for 1 minute. As an action, 
a creature Restrained by an arrow can make a DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check to try to break the 
restraint, ending the effect on itself on a successful 
check.
 Arrow of Transport. As a Magic action, you can 
fire one energy arrow from this weapon at a target 
you can see within 60 feet of yourself. The target 
can be either a willing Medium or smaller creature 
or an object that isn’t being worn or carried, pro -
vided the object is small enough to fit inside a 5-foot 
Cube. The arrow teleports the target to an unoccu -
pied space you can see within 10 feet of you.
 Energy Ladder. As a Magic action, you can loose a 
flurry of energy arrows from this weapon at a wall 
up to 60 feet away from yourself. The arrows be -
come glowing rungs that stick out of the wall, form -
ing a magical ladder up to 60 feet long on the wall. 
This ladder lasts for 1 minute before disappearing. 
Eversmoking Bottle
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
As a Magic action, you can open or close this bottle.
 Opening the bottle causes thick smoke to billow 
out, forming a cloud that fills a 60-foot Emanation 
originating from the bottle. The area within the 
smoke is Heavily Obscured.
 Each minute the bottle remains open, the size of 
the Emanation increases by 10 feet until it reaches 
its maximum size of 120 feet. 