System Reference Document 5.2.1
98
The trap is affixed by a heavy chain to an immo -
bile object, such as a tree or a spike driven into the 
ground. A creature that steps on the plate must 
succeed on a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or take 
1d4 Piercing damage and have its Speed reduced to 
0 until the start of its next turn. Thereafter, until 
the creature breaks free of the trap, its movement 
is limited by the length of the chain (typically 3 
feet). A creature can use its action to make a DC 
13 Strength (Athletics) check, freeing itself or an -
other creature within its reach on a success. Each 
failed check deals 1 Piercing damage to the trapped 
creature.
Ink (10 GP)
Ink comes in a 1-ounce bottle, which provides 
enough ink to write about 500 pages.
Ink Pen (2 CP)
Using Ink, an Ink Pen is used to write or draw.
Jug (2 CP)
A Jug holds up to 1 gallon.
Ladder (1 SP)
A Ladder is 10 feet tall. You must climb to move up 
or down it.
Lamp (5 SP)
A Lamp burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright Light in a 15-
foot radius and Dim Light for an additional 30 feet.
Lantern, Bullseye (10 GP)
A Bullseye Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright 
Light in a 60-foot Cone and Dim Light for an addi -
tional 60 feet.
Lantern, Hooded (5 GP)
A Hooded Lantern burns Oil as fuel to cast Bright 
Light in a 30-foot radius and Dim Light for an ad -
ditional 30 feet. As a Bonus Action, you can lower 
the hood, reducing the light to Dim Light in a 5-foot 
radius, or raise it again.
Lock (10 GP)
A Lock comes with a key. Without the key, a crea-
ture can use Thieves’ Tools to pick this Lock with a 
successful DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check.
Magnifying Glass (100 GP)
A Magnifying Glass grants Advantage on any ability 
check made to appraise or inspect a highly detailed 
item. Lighting a fire with a Magnifying Glass re -
quires light as bright as sunlight to focus, tinder to 
ignite, and about 5 minutes for the fire to ignite.
Manacles (2 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can use Manacles to bind an 
unwilling Small or Medium creature within 5 feet 
of yourself that has the Grappled, Incapacitated, 
or Restrained condition if you succeed on a DC 13 
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) check. While bound, a 
creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls, and the 
creature is Restrained if the Manacles are attached 
to a chain or hook that is fixed in place. Escaping 
the Manacles requires a successful DC 20 Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) check as an action. Bursting them 
requires a successful DC 25 Strength (Athletics) 
check as an action.
 Each set of Manacles comes with a key. Without 
the key, a creature can use Thieves’ Tools to pick the 
Manacles’ lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) check.
Map (1 GP)
If you consult an accurate Map, you gain a +5 bonus 
to Wisdom (Survival) checks you make to find your 
way in the place represented on it.
Mirror (5 GP)
A handheld steel Mirror is useful for personal cos -
metics but also for peeking around corners and re -
flecting light as a signal.
Net (1 GP)
When you take the Attack action, you can replace 
one of your attacks with throwing a Net. Target a 
creature you can see within 15 feet of yourself. The 
target must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw 
(DC 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency 
Bonus) or have the Restrained condition until it 
escapes. The target succeeds automatically if it is 
Huge or larger.
 To escape, the target or a creature within 5 feet 
of it must take an action to make a DC 10 Strength 
(Athletics) check, freeing the Restrained creature 
on a success. Destroying the Net (AC 10; 5 HP; Im -
munity to Bludgeoning, Poison, and Psychic dam -
age) also frees the target, ending the effect.
Oil (1 SP)
You can douse a creature, object, or space with Oil 
or use it as fuel, as detailed below.
 Dousing a Creature or an Object. When you 
take the Attack action, you can replace one of your 
attacks with throwing an Oil flask. Target one crea-
ture or object within 20 feet of yourself. The target 
must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 
plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus) 
or be covered in oil. If the target takes Fire damage 
before the oil dries (after 1 minute), the target takes 
an extra 5 Fire damage from burning oil.
 Dousing a Space. You can take the Utilize ac -
tion to pour an Oil flask on level ground to cover a 
5-foot-square area within 5 feet of yourself. If lit, 
the oil burns until the end of the turn 2 rounds from 
when the oil was lit (or 12 seconds) and deals 5 Fire 
damage to any creature that enters the area or ends 
its turn there. A creature can take this damage only 
once per turn.