System Reference Document 5.2.1
169
 Many major temples, guildhalls, and other import -
ant places have permanent teleportation circles. 
Each circle includes a unique sigil sequence—a 
string of runes arranged in a particular pattern. 
 When you first gain the ability to cast this spell, 
you learn the sigil sequences for two destinations 
on the Material Plane, determined by the GM. You 
might learn additional sigil sequences during your 
adventures. You can commit a new sigil sequence to 
memory after studying it for 1 minute.
 You can create a permanent teleportation circle 
by casting this spell in the same location every day 
for 365 days.
Thaumaturgy
Transmutation Cantrip (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Up to 1 minute
You manifest a minor wonder within range. You cre -
ate one of the effects below within range. If you cast 
this spell multiple times, you can have up to three of 
its 1-minute effects active at a time.
 Altered Eyes. You alter the appearance of your 
eyes for 1 minute.
 Booming Voice. Your voice booms up to three 
times as loud as normal for 1 minute. For the dura-
tion, you have Advantage on Charisma (Intimida-
tion) checks.
 Fire Play. You cause flames to flicker, brighten, 
dim, or change color for 1 minute.
 Invisible Hand. You instantaneously cause an un -
locked door or window to fly open or slam shut.
 Phantom Sound. You create an instantaneous 
sound that originates from a point of your choice 
within range, such as a rumble of thunder, the cry of 
a raven, or ominous whispers.
 Tremors. You cause harmless tremors in the 
ground for 1 minute.
Thunderwave
Level 1 Evocation (Bard, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a wave of thunderous energy. Each 
creature in a 15-foot Cube originating from you 
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, a creature takes 2d8 Thunder damage and is 
pushed 10 feet away from you. On a successful save, 
a creature takes half as much damage only.
 In addition, unsecured objects that are entirely 
within the Cube are pushed 10 feet away from you, 
and a thunderous boom is audible within 300 feet.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 1.
Time Stop
Level 9 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but 
yourself. No time passes for other creatures, while 
you take 1d4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you 
can use actions and move as normal.
 This spell ends if one of the actions you use during 
this period, or any effects that you create during it, 
affects a creature other than you or an object being 
worn or carried by someone other than you. In addi -
tion, the spell ends if you move to a place more than 
1,000 feet from the location where you cast it.
Tiny Hut
Level 3 Evocation (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a crystal bead)
Duration: 8 hours
A 10-foot Emanation springs into existence around 
you and remains stationary for the duration. The 
spell fails when you cast it if the Emanation isn’t big 
enough to fully encapsulate all creatures in its area.
 Creatures and objects within the Emanation 
when you cast the spell can move through it freely. 
All other creatures and objects are barred from 
passing through it. Spells of level 3 or lower can’t be 
cast through it, and the effects of such spells can’t 
extend into it.
 The atmosphere inside the Emanation is comfort-
able and dry, regardless of the weather outside. Until 
the spell ends, you can command the interior to have 
Dim Light or Darkness (no action required). The Em-
anation is opaque from the outside and of any color 
you choose, but it’s transparent from the inside.
 The spell ends early if you leave the Emanation or 
if you cast it again.
Tongues
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a miniature ziggurat)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell grants the creature you touch the ability 
to understand any spoken or signed language that 
it hears or sees. Moreover, when the target commu -
nicates by speaking or signing, any creature that 