System Reference Document 5.2.1
174
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cork)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell grants the ability to move across any liquid 
surface—such as water, acid, mud, snow, quicksand, 
or lava—as if it were harmless solid ground (crea-
tures crossing molten lava can still take damage 
from the heat). Up to ten willing creatures of your 
choice within range gain this ability for the duration.
 An affected target must take a Bonus Action to 
pass from the liquid’s surface into the liquid itself 
and vice versa, but if the target falls into the liquid, 
the target passes through the surface into the liquid 
below.
Web
Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You conjure a mass of sticky webbing at a point 
within range. The webs fill a 20-foot Cube there for 
the duration. The webs are Difficult Terrain, and the 
area within them is Lightly Obscured.
 If the webs aren’t anchored between two solid 
masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across 
a floor, wall, or ceiling, the web collapses on itself, 
and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. 
Webs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 
feet.
 The first time a creature enters the webs on a 
turn or starts its turn there, it must succeed on a 
Dexterity saving throw or have the Restrained con -
dition while in the webs or until it breaks free.
 A creature Restrained by the webs can take an 
action to make a Strength (Athletics) check against 
your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer 
Restrained.
 The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot Cube of webs 
exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 
Fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in 
the fire.
Weird
Level 9 Illusion (Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You try to create illusory terrors in others’ minds. 
Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot-radius 
Sphere centered on a point within range makes a 
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a target 
takes 10d10 Psychic damage and has the Frightened 
condition for the duration. On a successful save, a 
target takes half as much damage only.
 A Frightened target makes a Wisdom saving 
throw at the end of each of its turns. On a failed 
save, it takes 5d10 Psychic damage. On a successful 
save, the spell ends on that target.
Wind Walk
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a candle)
Duration: 8 hours
You and up to ten willing creatures of your choice 
within range assume gaseous forms for the du -
ration, appearing as wisps of cloud. While in this 
cloud form, a target has a Fly Speed of 300 feet and 
can hover; it has Immunity to the Prone condition; 
and it has Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, and 
Slashing damage. The only actions a target can take 
in this form are the Dash action or a Magic action to 
begin reverting to its normal form. Reverting takes 
1 minute, during which the target has the Stunned 
condition. Until the spell ends, the target can revert 
to cloud form, which also requires a Magic action 
followed by a 1-minute transformation.
 If a target is in cloud form and flying when the ef -
fect ends, the target descends 60 feet per round for 
1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it can’t 
land after 1 minute, it falls the remaining distance.
Wind Wall
Level 3 Evocation (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a fan and a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a 
point you choose within range. You can make the 
wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot 
thick. You can shape the wall in any way you choose 
so long as it makes one continuous path along the 
ground. The wall lasts for the duration.
 When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Strength saving throw, taking 4d8 Blud -
geoning damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one.
 The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other 
gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or 
objects can’t pass through the wall. Loose, light -
weight materials brought into the wall fly upward. 
Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles 
launched at targets behind the wall are deflected 
upward and miss automatically. Boulders hurled by 
Giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are 
unaffected. Creatures in gaseous form can’t pass 
through it.