System Reference Document 5.2.1
63
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Rogue levels 
8, 10, 12, and 16.
Level 5: Cunning Strike
You’ve developed cunning ways to use your Sneak 
Attack. When you deal Sneak Attack damage, you 
can add one of the following Cunning Strike effects. 
Each effect has a die cost, which is the number of 
Sneak Attack damage dice you must forgo to add the 
effect. You remove the die before rolling, and the 
effect occurs immediately after the attack’s damage 
is dealt. For example, if you add the Poison effect, 
remove 1d6 from the Sneak Attack’s damage before 
rolling.
 If a Cunning Strike effect requires a saving throw, 
the DC equals 8 plus your Dexterity modifier and 
Proficiency Bonus.
 Poison (Cost: 1d6). You add a toxin to your strike, 
forcing the target to make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, the target has the Poisoned 
condition for 1 minute. At the end of each of its 
turns, the Poisoned target repeats the save, ending 
the effect on itself on a success.
 To use this effect, you must have a Poisoner’s Kit 
on your person.
 Trip (Cost: 1d6). If the target is Large or smaller, 
it must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or have 
the Prone condition.
 Withdraw (Cost: 1d6). Immediately after the 
attack, you move up to half your Speed without pro -
voking Opportunity Attacks.
Level 5: Uncanny Dodge
When an attacker that you can see hits you with an 
attack roll, you can take a Reaction to halve the at -
tack’s damage against you (round down).
Level 7: Evasion
You can nimbly dodge out of the way of certain dan -
gers. When you’re subjected to an effect that allows 
you to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only 
half damage, you instead take no damage if you 
succeed on the saving throw and only half damage 
if you fail. You can’t use this feature if you have the 
Incapacitated condition.
Level 7: Reliable Talent
Whenever you make an ability check that uses one 
of your skill or tool proficiencies, you can treat a 
d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10.
Level 11: Improved Cunning Strike
You can use up to two Cunning Strike effects when 
you deal Sneak Attack damage, paying the die cost 
for each effect.
Level 14: Devious Strikes
You’ve practiced new ways to use your Sneak Attack 
deviously. The following effects are now among 
your Cunning Strike options.
 Daze (Cost: 2d6). The target must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw, or on its next turn, it can 
do only one of the following: move or take an action 
or a Bonus Action.
 Knock Out (Cost: 6d6). The target must succeed 
on a Constitution saving throw, or it has the Uncon -
scious condition for 1 minute or until it takes any 
damage. The Unconscious target repeats the save 
at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on 
itself on a success.
 Obscure (Cost: 3d6). The target must succeed on 
a Dexterity saving throw, or it has the Blinded con -
dition until the end of its next turn.
Level 15: Slippery Mind
Your cunning mind is exceptionally difficult to con -
trol. You gain proficiency in Wisdom and Charisma 
saving throws.
Level 18: Elusive
You’re so evasive that attackers rarely gain the 
upper hand against you. No attack roll can have 
Advantage against you unless you have the Incapac -
itated condition.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of the 
Night Spirit is recommended.
Level 20: Stroke of Luck
You have a marvelous knack for succeeding when 
you need to. If you fail a D20 Test, you can turn the 
roll into a 20.
 Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest.