System Reference Document 5.2.1
96
Ammunition
Type Amount Storage Weight Cost
Arrows 20 Quiver 1 lb. 1 GP
Bolts 20 Case 1½ lb. 1 GP
Bullets, Firearm 10 Pouch 2 lb. 3 GP
Bullets, Sling 20 Pouch 1½ lb. 4 CP
Needles 50 Pouch 1 lb. 1 GP
Antitoxin (50 GP)
As a Bonus Action, you can drink a vial of Antitoxin 
to gain Advantage on saving throws to avoid or end 
the Poisoned condition for 1 hour.
Arcane Focus (Varies)
An Arcane Focus takes one of the forms in the 
Arcane Focuses table and is bejeweled or carved to 
channel arcane magic. A Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wiz-
ard can use such an item as a Spellcasting Focus.
Arcane Focuses
Focus Weight Cost
Crystal 1 lb. 10 GP
Orb 3 lb. 20 GP
Rod 2 lb. 10 GP
Staff (also a Quarterstaff) 4 lb. 5 GP
Wand 1 lb. 10 GP
Backpack (2 GP)
A Backpack holds up to 30 pounds within 1 cubic 
foot. It can also serve as a saddlebag.
Ball Bearings (1 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can spill Ball Bearings from 
their pouch. They spread to cover a level, 10-foot-
square area within 10 feet of yourself. A creature 
that enters this area for the first time on a turn 
must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or 
have the Prone condition. It takes 10 minutes to re -
cover the Ball Bearings.
Barrel (2 GP)
A Barrel holds up to 40 gallons of liquid or up to 4 
cubic feet of dry goods.
Basket (4 SP)
A Basket holds up to 40 pounds within 2 cubic feet.
Bedroll (1 GP)
A Bedroll sleeps one Small or Medium creature. 
While in a Bedroll, you automatically succeed on 
saving throws against extreme cold (see “Gameplay 
Toolbox”).
Bell (1 GP)
When rung as a Utilize action, a Bell produces a 
sound that can be heard up to 60 feet away.
Blanket (5 SP)
While wrapped in a blanket, you have Advantage on 
saving throws against extreme cold (see “Gameplay 
Toolbox”).
Block and Tackle (1 GP)
A Block and Tackle allows you to hoist up to four 
times the weight you can normally lift.
Book (25 GP)
A Book contains fiction or nonfiction. If you consult 
an accurate nonfiction Book about its topic, you gain 
a +5 bonus to Intelligence (Arcana, History, Nature, 
or Religion) checks you make about that topic.
Bottle, Glass (2 GP)
A Glass Bottle holds up to 11/2 pints.
Bucket (5 CP)
A Bucket holds up to half a cubic foot of contents.
Burglar’s Pack (16 GP)
A Burglar’s Pack contains the following items: 
Backpack, Ball Bearings, Bell, 10 Candles, Crowbar, 
Hooded Lantern, 7 flasks of Oil, 5 days of Rations, 
Rope, Tinderbox, and Waterskin.
Caltrops (1 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can spread Caltrops from 
their bag to cover a 5-foot-square area within 5 feet 
of yourself. A creature that enters this area for the 
first time on a turn must succeed on a DC 15 Dex -
terity saving throw or take 1 Piercing damage and 
have its Speed reduced to 0 until the start of its next 
turn. It takes 10 minutes to recover the Caltrops.
Candle (1 CP)
For 1 hour, a lit Candle sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot 
radius and Dim Light for an additional 5 feet.
Case, Crossbow Bolt (1 GP)
A Crossbow Bolt Case holds up to 20 Bolts.
Case, Map or Scroll (1 GP)
A Map or Scroll Case holds up to 10 sheets of paper 
or 5 sheets of parchment.
Chain (5 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can wrap a Chain around an 
unwilling creature within 5 feet of yourself that has 
the Grappled, Incapacitated, or Restrained condi -
tion if you succeed on a DC 13 Strength (Athletics) 
check. If the creature’s legs are bound, the creature 
has the Restrained condition until it escapes. Es -
caping the Chain requires the creature to make a 
successful DC 18 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check as an 
action. Bursting the Chain requires a successful DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action.