System Reference Document 5.2.1
200
Duration: Instantaneous, and the trap resets at the 
start of the next turn
When a creature moves onto this trap’s pressure 
plate for the first time on a turn or starts its turn 
there, a nearby statue exhales a 15-foot Cone of 
magical flame. The statue can look like anything, 
such as a dragon or a wizard. Each creature in the 
Cone must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving 
throw, taking 11 (2d10) Fire damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one. 
 Detect and Disarm.  A Detect Magic spell reveals 
an aura of Evocation magic around the statue. As a 
Search action, a creature within 5 feet of the statue 
can examine it and make a DC 10 Wisdom (Percep -
tion) check, detecting a tiny glyph on the statue on a 
successful check. Once the glyph is found, a charac -
ter can take a Study action to examine it and make a 
DC 15 Intelligence (Arcana) check, ascertaining that 
the glyph means “fire” on a successful check. As an 
action, a character can use a sharp tool to deface the 
glyph, which disarms the trap.
 As a Search action, a creature can examine the 
section of floor that forms the pressure plate and 
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, detecting 
the pressure plate on a successful check. Wedging 
an Iron Spike or similar object under the pressure 
plate prevents the trap from triggering. 
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing the damage and the area of ef -
fect, as shown in the following table.
Levels Fire Damage Area of Effect
5–10 22 (4d10) 30-foot Cone
11–16 55 (10d10) 60-foot Cone
17–20 99 (18d10) 120-foot Cone
Hidden Pit
Nuisance Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature moves onto the pit’s lid
Duration: Instantaneous
This 10-foot-deep pit has a hinged lid constructed 
from material identical to the surrounding floor. 
When a creature moves onto the lid, it swings open 
like a trapdoor, causing the creature to fall into the 
pit. The lid remains open thereafter.
 A creature that falls into the pit takes 3 (1d6) 
Bludgeoning damage from the fall.
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Study action, a creature 
can examine the section of floor that forms the 
pit’s lid and make a DC 15 Intelligence (Investiga-
tion) check, detecting the pit on a successful check. 
Once the pit is detected, an Iron Spike or a similar 
object can be wedged between the pit’s lid and the 
surrounding floor to prevent the lid from opening, 
thereby making it safe to cross. The cover can also 
be held shut using Arcane Lock or similar magic.
 Escape. A creature needs a Climb Speed, climbing 
gear, or magic such as Spider Climb to scale the pit’s 
smooth walls. You can make the pit easier to escape 
by adding cracks in the walls big enough to serve as 
handholds and footholds. 
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing the pit’s depth and damage, as 
shown in the following table. 
Levels Pit Depth Bludgeoning Damage
5–10 30 feet 10 (3d6)
11–16 60 feet 21 (6d6)
17–20 120 feet 42 (12d6)
Poisoned Darts
Deadly Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature moves onto a pressure plate
Duration: Instantaneous, and the trap resets at the 
start of the next turn if it has activated fewer than 
three times
When a creature moves onto this trap’s pressure 
plate for the first time on a turn, poisoned darts 
shoot from tubes embedded in the surrounding 
walls. The holes that house these tubes are ob -
scured by dust and cobwebs or skillfully hidden 
amid bas-reliefs, murals, or frescoes.
 Each creature in the darts’ path must succeed on 
a DC 13 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by 1d3 
darts, taking 3 (1d6) Poison damage per dart.
 Detect and Disarm.  As a Search action, a creature 
can examine the walls and make a DC 15 Wisdom 
(Perception) check, detecting the holes on a suc -
cessful check. Plugging all the holes with wax, cloth, 
or detritus prevents the darts from firing. 
 As a Search action, a creature can examine the 
section of floor that forms the pressure plate and 
make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, detecting 
the pressure plate on a successful check. Wedging 
an Iron Spike or a similar object under the pressure 
plate prevents the trap from triggering. 
 At Higher Levels. You can scale the trap for higher 
levels by increasing each dart’s Poison damage as 
follows: 7 (2d6) at levels 5–10, 14 (4d6) at levels 
11–16, or 24 (7d6) at levels 17–20.
Poisoned Needle
Nuisance Trap (Levels 1–4)
Trigger:  A creature opens the trap’s lock improperly 
or fails to disarm the trap
Duration: Instantaneous
A poisoned needle is hidden in a lock. When a crea-
ture opens the lock with any object other than the 
proper key, the needle springs out and stabs the 
creature. The creature makes a DC 11 Constitution 
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 
5 (1d10) Poison damage and has the Poisoned 