System Reference Document 5.2.1
162
bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack, 
and you take no damage from Magic Missile .
Shield of Faith
Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a prayer scroll)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A shimmering field surrounds a creature of your 
choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC for 
the duration.
Shillelagh
Transmutation Cantrip (Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (mistletoe)
Duration: 1 minute
A Club or Quarterstaff you are holding is imbued 
with nature’s power. For the duration, you can use 
your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for the 
attack and damage rolls of melee attacks using that 
weapon, and the weapon’s damage die becomes 
a d8. If the attack deals damage, it can be Force 
damage or the weapon’s normal damage type (your 
choice).
 The spell ends early if you cast it again or if you let 
go of the weapon.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage die changes when 
you reach levels 5 (d10), 11 (d12), and 17 (2d6).
Shining Smite
Level 2 Transmutation (Paladin)
Casting Time: Bonus Action, which you take immedi -
ately after hitting a creature with a Melee weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike
Range: Self
Component: V
Duration: Concentration, up to  1 minute
The target hit by the strike takes an extra 2d6 Radi -
ant damage from the attack. Until the spell ends, the 
target sheds Bright Light in a 5-foot radius, attack 
rolls against it have Advantage, and it can’t benefit 
from the Invisible condition.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 2.
Shocking Grasp
Evocation Cantrip (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Lightning springs from you to a creature that you 
try to touch. Make a melee spell attack against the 
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 Lightning dam -
age, and it can’t make Opportunity Attacks until the 
start of its next turn.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 
(4d8).
Silence
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Cleric, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, no sound can be created within 
or pass through a 20-foot-radius Sphere centered 
on a point you choose within range. Any creature 
or object entirely inside the Sphere has Immunity 
to Thunder damage, and creatures have the Deaf -
ened condition while entirely inside it. Casting a 
spell that includes a Verbal component is impossible 
there.
Silent Image
Level 1 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or 
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger 
than a 15-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot 
within range and lasts for the duration. The image 
is purely visual; it isn’t accompanied by sound, 
smell, or other sensory effects.
 As a Magic action, you can cause the image 
to move to any spot within range. As the image 
changes location, you can alter its appearance so 
that its movements appear natural for the image. 
For example, if you create an image of a creature 
and move it, you can alter the image so that it ap -
pears to be walking.
 Physical interaction with the image reveals it to 
be an illusion, since things can pass through it. A 
creature that takes a Study action to examine the 
image can determine that it is an illusion with a 
successful Intelligence (Investigation) check against 
your spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illu -
sion for what it is, the creature can see through the 
image.
Simulacrum
Level 7 Illusion (Wizard)
Casting Time: 12 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered ruby worth 1,500+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled