System Reference Document 5.2.1
247
 
Spell
Charge 
Cost
Mage Hand 0
Passwall 5
Plane Shift 7
Protection from Evil and Good 0
Telekinesis 5
Wall of Fire 4
Web 2
 Regaining Charges. The staff regains 4d6 + 2 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last 
charge, roll 1d20. On a 20, the staff regains 1d12 + 1 
charges.
 Retributive Strike. You can take a Magic action to 
break the staff over your knee or against a solid sur -
face. The staff is destroyed and releases its magic in 
an explosion that fills a 30-foot Emanation originat -
ing from itself. You have a 50 percent chance to in -
stantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoid -
ing the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you 
take Force damage equal to 16 times the number 
of charges in the staff. Each other creature in the 
area makes a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes Force damage equal to 
6 times the number of charges in the staff. On a suc -
cessful save, a creature takes half as much damage.
Staff of the Python
Staff, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
As a Magic action, you can throw this staff so that it 
lands in an unoccupied space within 10 feet of you, 
causing the staff to become a Giant Constrictor 
Snake in that space. The snake is under your con -
trol and shares your Initiative count, taking its turn 
immediately after yours. 
 On your turn, you can mentally command the 
snake (no action required) if it is within 60 feet of 
you and you don’t have the Incapacitated condition. 
You decide what action the snake takes and where it 
moves during its turn, or you can issue it a general 
command, such as to attack your enemies or guard 
a location. Absent commands from you, the snake 
defends itself.
 As a Bonus Action, you can command the snake 
to revert to staff form in its current space, and you 
can’t use the staff’s property again for 1 hour. If the 
snake is reduced to 0 Hit Points, it dies and reverts 
to its staff form; the staff then shatters and is de -
stroyed. If the snake reverts to staff form before 
losing all its Hit Points, it regains all of them. 
Staff of the Woodlands
Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Druid)
This staff has 6 charges and can be wielded as a 
magic Quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack 
rolls and damage rolls made with it. While holding 
it, you have a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls.
 Spells. While holding the staff, you can cast one of 
the spells on the following table from it, using your 
spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges 
you must expend to cast the spell.
Spell Charge 
Cost
Animal Friendship 1
Awaken 5
Barkskin 2
Locate Animals or Plants 2
Pass without Trace 2
Speak with Animals 1
Speak with Plants 3
Wall of Thorns 6
 Tree Form. You can take a Magic action to plant 
one end of the staff in earth in an unoccupied space 
and expend 1 charge to transform the staff into 
a healthy tree. The tree is 60 feet tall and has a 
5-foot-diameter trunk, and its branches at the top 
spread out in a 20-foot radius. The tree appears 
ordinary but radiates a faint aura of Transmutation 
magic that can be discerned with the Detect Magic  
spell. While touching the tree and using a Magic 
action, you return the staff to its normal form. Any 
creature in the tree falls when the tree reverts to 
a staff.
 Regaining Charges. The staff regains 1d6 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the last 
charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff loses its proper -
ties and becomes a nonmagical Quarterstaff.
Staff of Thunder and Lightning
Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This staff can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff 
that grants a +2 bonus to attack rolls and damage 
rolls made with it. It also has the following addi -
tional properties. Once one of these properties is 
used, it can’t be used again until the next dawn.
 Lightning. When you hit with a melee attack 
using the staff, you can cause the target to take an 
extra 2d6 Lightning damage (no action required).
 Thunder. When you hit with a melee attack using 
the staff, you can cause the staff to emit a crack of 
thunder audible out to 300 feet (no action required). 
The target you hit must succeed on a DC 17 Consti -
tution saving throw or have the Stunned condition 
until the end of your next turn.