System Reference Document 5.2.1
113
• If you deal damage to the target with an attack 
roll or a spell, the target takes an extra 1d8 Ne -
crotic damage.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. If you cast this 
spell using a level 4 spell slot, you can maintain 
Concentration on it for up to 10 minutes. If you use 
a level 5+ spell slot, the spell doesn’t require Con -
centration, and the duration becomes 8 hours (level 
5–6 slot) or 24 hours (level 7–8 slot). If you use a 
level 9 spell slot, the spell lasts until dispelled.
Black Tentacles
Level 4 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on 
ground that you can see within range. For the du -
ration, these tentacles turn the ground in that area 
into Difficult Terrain.
 Each creature in that area makes a Strength sav -
ing throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 Bludgeoning 
damage, and it has the Restrained condition until 
the spell ends. A creature also makes that save if 
it enters the area or ends it turn there. A creature 
makes that save only once per turn.
 A Restrained creature can take an action to make 
a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save 
DC, ending the condition on itself on a success.
Blade Barrier
Level 6 Evocation (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of whirling blades made of magical 
energy. The wall appears within range and lasts for 
the duration. You make a straight wall up to 100 
feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a ringed 
wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 5 
feet thick. The wall provides Three-Quarters Cover, 
and its space is Difficult Terrain.
 Any creature in the wall’s space makes a Dexter -
ity saving throw, taking 6d10 Force damage on a 
failed save or half as much damage on a successful 
one. A creature also makes that save if it enters the 
wall’s space or ends it turn there. A creature makes 
that save only once per turn.
Bless
Level 1 Enchantment (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a Holy Symbol worth 5+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You bless up to three creatures within range. When -
ever a target makes an attack roll or a saving throw 
before the spell ends, the target adds 1d4 to the at -
tack roll or save.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Blight
Level 4 Necromancy (Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature that you can see within range makes 
a Constitution saving throw, taking 8d8 Necrotic 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one. A Plant creature automatically 
fails the save.
 Alternatively, target a nonmagical plant that isn’t 
a creature, such as a tree or shrub. It doesn’t make a 
save; it simply withers and dies.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4.
Blindness/Deafness
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Cleric, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must 
succeed on a Constitution saving throw, or it has 
the Blinded or Deafened condition (your choice) 
for the duration. At the end of each of its turns, the 
target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on 
a success.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 2.
Blink
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Roll 1d6 at the end of each of your turns for the 
duration. On a roll of 4–6, you vanish from your cur -
rent plane of existence and appear in the Ethereal 
Plane (the spell ends instantly if you are already on 
that plane). While on the Ethereal Plane, you can 