System Reference Document 5.2.1
38
Level 7: Blessed Strikes
Divine power infuses you in battle. You gain one of 
the following options of your choice (if you get ei -
ther option from a Cleric subclass in an older book, 
use only the option you choose for this feature).
 Divine Strike. Once on each of your turns when 
you hit a creature with an attack roll using a 
weapon, you can cause the target to take an extra 
1d8 Necrotic or Radiant damage (your choice).
 Potent Spellcasting. Add your Wisdom modifier 
to the damage you deal with any Cleric cantrip.
Level 10: Divine Intervention
You can call on your deity or pantheon to inter -
vene on your behalf. As a Magic action, choose any 
Cleric spell of level 5 or lower that doesn’t require a 
Reaction to cast. As part of the same action, you cast 
that spell without expending a spell slot or needing 
Material components. You can’t use this feature 
again until you finish a Long Rest.
Level 14: Improved Blessed Strikes
The option you chose for Blessed Strikes grows 
more powerful.
 Divine Strike. The extra damage of your Divine 
Strike increases to 2d8.
 Potent Spellcasting. When you cast a Cleric can -
trip and deal damage to a creature with it, you can 
give vitality to yourself or another creature within 
60 feet of yourself, granting a number of Temporary 
Hit Points equal to twice your Wisdom modifier.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of 
Fate is recommended.
Level 20: Greater Divine Intervention
You can call on even more powerful divine interven -
tion. When you use your Divine Intervention fea-
ture, you can choose Wish when you select a spell. 
If you do so, you can’t use Divine Intervention again 
until you finish 2d4 Long Rests.
Cleric Spell List
This section presents the Cleric spell list. The spells 
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, 
and each spell’s school of magic is listed. In the Spe -
cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra-
tion, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it requires a 
specific Material component.
Cantrips (Level 0 Cleric Spells)
Spell School Special
Guidance Divination C
Light Evocation —
Mending Transmutation —
Resistance Abjuration C
Sacred Flame Evocation —
Spare the Dying Necromancy —
Thaumaturgy Transmutation —
Level 1 Cleric Spells
Spell School Special
Bane Enchantment C
Bless Enchantment C, M
Command Enchantment —
Create or Destroy Water Transmutation —
Cure Wounds Abjuration —
Detect Evil and Good Divination C
Detect Magic Divination C, R
Detect Poison and Disease Divination C, R
Guiding Bolt Evocation —
Healing Word Abjuration —
Inflict Wounds Necromancy —
Protection from Evil and Good Abjuration C, M
Purify Food and Drink Transmutation R
Sanctuary Abjuration —
Shield of Faith Abjuration C
Level 2 Cleric Spells
Spell School Special
Aid Abjuration —
Augury Divination R, M
Blindness/Deafness Transmutation —
Calm Emotions Enchantment C
Continual Flame Evocation M
Enhance Ability Transmutation C
Find Traps Divination —
Gentle Repose Necromancy R, M
Hold Person Enchantment C
Lesser Restoration Abjuration —
Locate Object Divination C
Prayer of Healing Abjuration —