System Reference Document 5.2.1
230
1d20 Golem Time Cost
1–5 Clay Golem 30 days 65,000 GP
6 –17 Flesh Golem 60 days 50,000 GP
18 Iron Golem 120 days 100,000 GP
19–20 Stone Golem 90 days 80,000 GP
Manual of Quickness of Action
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This book contains coordination and balance ex -
ercises, and its words are charged with magic. 
If you spend 48 hours over a period of 6 days or 
fewer studying the book’s contents and practicing 
its guidelines, your Dexterity increases by 2, to a 
maximum of 30. The manual then loses its magic 
but regains it in a century.
Marvelous Pigments
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This fine wooden box contains 1d4 pots of pigment 
and a brush (weighing 1 pound in total).
 Using the brush and expending 1 pot of pigment, 
you can paint any number of three-dimensional 
objects and terrain features (such as walls, doors, 
trees, flowers, weapons, webs, and pits), provided 
these elements are all confined to a 20-foot Cube. 
The effort takes 10 minutes (regardless of the num -
ber of elements you create), during which time you 
must remain in the Cube, and requires Concentra-
tion. If your Concentration is broken or you leave 
the Cube before the work is done, all the painted 
elements vanish, and the pot of pigment is wasted.
 When the work is done, all the painted objects 
and terrain features become real. Thus, painting a 
door on a wall creates an actual door, which can be 
opened to whatever is beyond. Painting a pit creates 
a real pit, the entire depth of which must lie within 
the 20-foot Cube.
 No object created by a pot of pigment can have a 
value greater than 25 GP, and the total value of all 
objects created by a pot of pigment can’t exceed 500 
GP. If you paint objects of greater value (such as a 
large pile of gold), they look authentic, but close in -
spection reveals they’re made from paste, cookies, 
or some other worthless material.
 If you paint a form of energy such as fire or light -
ning, the energy dissipates as soon as you complete 
the painting, doing no harm.
Medallion of Thoughts
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
The medallion has 5 charges. While wearing it, you 
can expend 1 charge to cast Detect Thoughts (save 
DC 13) from it. The medallion regains 1d4 expended 
charges daily at dawn.
Mirror of Life Trapping
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
When this 4-foot-tall, 2-foot-wide mirror is viewed 
indirectly, its surface shows faint images of crea-
tures. The mirror weighs 50 pounds, and it has AC 
11, HP 10, Immunity to Poison and Psychic damage, 
and Vulnerability to Bludgeoning damage. It shat -
ters and is destroyed when reduced to 0 Hit Points.
 If the mirror is hanging on a vertical surface and 
you are within 5 feet of it, you can take a Magic 
action and use a command word to activate it. It 
remains activated until you take a Magic action and 
repeat the command word to deactivate it.
 Any creature other than you that sees its reflec -
tion in the activated mirror while within 30 feet 
of the mirror must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma 
saving throw or be trapped, along with anything it 
is wearing or carrying, in one of the mirror’s twelve 
extradimensional cells. A creature that knows the 
mirror’s nature makes the save with Advantage, 
and Constructs succeed on the save automatically.
 An extradimensional cell is an infinite expanse 
filled with thick fog that reduces visibility to 10 
feet. Creatures trapped in the mirror’s cells don’t 
age, and they don’t need to eat, drink, or sleep. A 
creature trapped within a cell can escape using 
magic that permits planar travel. Otherwise, the 
creature is confined to the cell until freed.
  If the mirror traps a creature but its twelve ex -
tradimensional cells are already occupied, the mir -
ror frees one trapped creature at random to accom -
modate the new prisoner. A freed creature appears 
in an unoccupied space within sight of the mirror 
but facing away from it. If the mirror is shattered, 
all creatures it contains are freed and appear in un -
occupied spaces near it.
 While within 5 feet of the mirror, you can take a 
Magic action to name one creature trapped in it or 
call out a particular cell by number. The creature 
named or contained in the named cell appears as an 
image on the mirror’s surface. You and the creature 
can then communicate.
 In a similar way, you can take a Magic action and 
use a second command word to free one creature 
trapped in the mirror. The freed creature appears, 
along with its possessions, in the unoccupied space 
nearest to the mirror and facing away from it.
 Placing the mirror inside an extradimensional 
space created by a Bag of Holding, Portable Hole, 
or similar item instantly destroys both items and 
opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates 
where the one item was placed inside the other. Any 
creature within 10 feet of the gate and not behind 
Total Cover is sucked through it to a random loca-
tion on the Astral Plane. The gate then closes. The 
gate is one-way only and can’t be reopened.