System Reference Document 5.2.1
145
Locate Creature
Level 4 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Describe or name a creature that is familiar to you. 
You sense the direction to the creature’s location 
if that creature is within 1,000 feet of you. If the 
creature is moving, you know the direction of its 
movement.
 The spell can locate a specific creature known to 
you or the nearest creature of a specific kind (such 
as a human or a unicorn) if you have seen such a 
creature up close—within 30 feet—at least once. 
If the creature you described or named is in a dif -
ferent form, such as under the effects of a Flesh to 
Stone or Polymorph spell, this spell doesn’t locate 
the creature.
 This spell can’t locate a creature if any thickness 
of lead blocks a direct path between you and the 
creature.
Locate Object
Level 2 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Paladin, 
Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a forked twig)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Describe or name an object that is familiar to you. 
You sense the direction to the object’s location if 
that object is within 1,000 feet of you. If the object is 
in motion, you know the direction of its movement.
 The spell can locate a specific object known to you 
if you have seen it up close—within 30 feet—at least 
once. Alternatively, the spell can locate the nearest 
object of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of 
apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, or weapon.
 This spell can’t locate an object if any thickness 
of lead blocks a direct path between you and the 
object.
Longstrider
Level 1 Transmutation (Bard, Druid, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a creature. The target’s Speed increases 
by 10 feet until the spell ends.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Mage Armor
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature who isn’t wearing 
armor. Until the spell ends, the target’s base AC be -
comes 13 plus its Dexterity modifier. The spell ends 
early if the target dons armor.
Mage Hand
Conjuration Cantrip (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you 
choose within range. The hand lasts for the dura-
tion. The hand vanishes if it is ever more than 30 
feet away from you or if you cast this spell again.
 When you cast the spell, you can use the hand to 
manipulate an object, open an unlocked door or 
container, stow or retrieve an item from an open 
container, or pour the contents out of a vial.
 As a Magic action on your later turns, you can con -
trol the hand thus again. As part of that action, you 
can move the hand up to 30 feet.
 The hand can’t attack, activate magic items, or 
carry more than 10 pounds.
Magic Circle
Level 3 Abjuration (Cleric, Paladin, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (salt and powdered silver worth 
100+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 hour
You create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tall Cylinder of 
magical energy centered on a point on the ground 
that you can see within range. Glowing runes ap -
pear wherever the Cylinder intersects with the floor 
or other surface.
 Choose one or more of the following types of crea-
tures: Celestials, Elementals, Fey, Fiends, or Undead. 
The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in 
the following ways:
• The creature can’t willingly enter the Cylinder 
by nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use 
teleportation or interplanar travel to do so, it 
must first succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
• The creature has Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against targets within the Cylinder.