System Reference Document 5.2.1
147
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell 
ends, that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a 
+1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls. The spell 
ends early if you cast it again.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The bonus in-
creases to +2 with a level 3–5 spell slot. The bonus 
increases to +3 with a level 6+ spell slot.
Magnificent Mansion
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature door worth 15+ GP)
Duration: 24 hours
You conjure a shimmering door in range that lasts 
for the duration. The door leads to an extradimen -
sional dwelling and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall. 
You and any creature you designate when you cast 
the spell can enter the extradimensional dwelling 
as long as the door remains open. You can open or 
close it (no action required) if you are within 30 feet 
of it. While closed, the door is imperceptible.
 Beyond the door is a magnificent foyer with 
numerous chambers beyond. The dwelling’s atmo -
sphere is clean, fresh, and warm.
 You can create any floor plan you like for the 
dwelling, but it can’t exceed 50 contiguous 10-foot 
Cubes. The place is furnished and decorated as you 
choose. It contains sufficient food to serve a nine-
course banquet for up to 100 people. Furnishings 
and other objects created by this spell dissipate into 
smoke if removed from it.
 A staff of 100 near-transparent servants attends 
all who enter. You determine the appearance of 
these servants and their attire. They are invulner -
able and obey your commands. Each servant can 
perform tasks that a human could perform, but they 
can’t attack or take any action that would directly 
harm another creature. Thus the servants can fetch 
things, clean, mend, fold clothes, light fires, serve 
food, pour wine, and so on. The servants can’t leave 
the dwelling.
 When the spell ends, any creatures or objects left 
inside the extradimensional space are expelled into 
the unoccupied spaces nearest to the entrance.
Major Image
Level 3 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create the image of an object, a creature, or 
some other visible phenomenon that is no larger 
than a 20-foot Cube. The image appears at a spot 
that you can see within range and lasts for the du -
ration. It seems real, including sounds, smells, and 
temperature appropriate to the thing depicted, but 
it can’t deal damage or cause conditions.
 If you are within range of the illusion, you can 
take a Magic action to cause the image to move to 
any other spot within range. As the image changes 
location, you can alter its appearance so that its 
movements appear natural for the image. For exam -
ple, if you create an image of a creature and move 
it, you can alter the image so that it appears to be 
walking. Similarly, you can cause the illusion to 
make different sounds at different times, even mak -
ing it carry on a conversation, for example.
 Physical interaction with the image reveals it to 
be an illusion, for things can pass through it. A crea-
ture that takes a Study action to examine the image 
can determine that it is an illusion with a success -
ful Intelligence (Investigation) check against your 
spell save DC. If a creature discerns the illusion for 
what it is, the creature can see through the image, 
and its other sensory qualities become faint to the 
creature.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The spell lasts 
until dispelled, without requiring Concentration, if 
cast with a level 4+ spell slot.
Mass Cure Wounds
Level 5 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of healing energy washes out from a point 
you can see within range. Choose up to six crea-
tures in a 30-foot-radius Sphere centered on that 
point. Each target regains Hit Points equal to 5d8 
plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 5.
Mass Heal
Level 9 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A flood of healing energy flows from you into 
creatures around you. You restore up to 700 Hit 
Points, divided as you choose among any number of 
creatures that you can see within range. Creatures 
healed by this spell also have the Blinded, Deafened, 
and Poisoned conditions removed from them.