System Reference Document 5.2.1
238
Plane Spells (Charges)
Air Chain Lightning (3 charges), Feather Fall  (0 
charges), Gust of Wind (2 charges), Wind 
Wall (1 charge) 
Earth Earthquake (5 charges), Stone Shape (2 
charges), Stoneskin  (3 charges), Wall of Stone 
(3 charges)
Fire Burning Hands (1 charge), Fireball  (2 charges), 
Fire Storm (4 charges), Wall of Fire (3 charges)
Water Create or Destroy Water  (1 charge), Ice Storm 
(2 charges), Tsunami (5 charges), Wall of Ice 
(3 charges), Water Walk (2 charges)
Ring of Evasion
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
This ring has 3 charges, and it regains 1d3 ex -
pended charges daily at dawn. When you fail a Dex -
terity saving throw while wearing the ring, you can 
take a Reaction to expend 1 charge to succeed on 
that save instead.
Ring of Feather Falling
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
When you fall while wearing this ring, you descend 
60 feet per round and take no damage from falling.
Ring of Free Action
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
While you wear this ring, Difficult Terrain doesn’t 
cost you extra movement. In addition, magic can 
neither reduce any of your Speeds nor cause you to 
have the Paralyzed or Restrained condition.
Ring of Invisibility
Ring, Legendary (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can take a Magic action 
to give yourself the Invisible condition. You remain 
Invisible until the ring is removed or until you take 
a Bonus Action to become visible again.
Ring of Jumping
Ring, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you can cast Jump from it, 
but can target only yourself when you do so.
Ring of Mind Shielding
Ring, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you are immune to magic 
that allows other creatures to read your thoughts, 
determine whether you are lying, know your align -
ment, or know your creature type. Creatures can 
telepathically communicate with you only if you 
allow it.
 You can take a Magic action to cause the ring to 
become imperceptible until you take another Magic 
action to make it perceptible, until you remove the 
ring, or until you die.
 If you die while wearing the ring, your soul enters 
it, unless it already houses a soul. You can remain in 
the ring or depart for the afterlife. As long as your 
soul is in the ring, you can telepathically commu -
nicate with any creature wearing it. A wearer can’t 
prevent this telepathic communication.
Ring of Protection
Ring, Rare (Requires Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to Armor Class and saving 
throws while wearing this ring.
Ring of Regeneration
Ring, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this ring, you regain 1d6 Hit Points 
every 10 minutes if you have at least 1 Hit Point. If 
you lose a body part, the ring causes the missing 
part to regrow and return to full functionality after 
1d6 + 1 days if you have at least 1 Hit Point the 
whole time.
Ring of Resistance
Ring, Rare 
You have Resistance to one damage type while 
wearing this ring. The gemstone in the ring indi -
cates the type, which the GM chooses or determines 
randomly by rolling on the following table.
1d10 Damage Type Gemstone
1 Acid Pearl
2 Cold Tourmaline
3 Fire Garnet
4 Force Sapphire
5 Lightning Citrine
6 Necrotic Jet
7 Poison Amethyst
8 Psychic Jade
9 Radiant Topaz
10 Thunder Spinel
Ring of Shooting Stars
Ring, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
You can cast Dancing Lights or Light from the ring.
 The ring has 6 charges and regains 1d6 expended 
charges daily at dawn. You can expend its charges 
to use the properties below.
 Faerie Fire. You can expend 1 charge to cast Fa-
erie Fire from the ring.
 Lightning Spheres. You can expend 2 charges as 
a Magic action to create up to four 3-foot-diameter 
spheres of lightning.
 Each sphere appears in an unoccupied space you 
can see within 120 feet of yourself. The spheres 