System Reference Document 5.2.1
167
Sunburst
Level 8 Evocation (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of sunstone)
Duration: Instantaneous
Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on a point you choose within range. Each 
creature in the Sphere makes a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 12d6 Ra-
diant damage and has the Blinded condition for 1 
minute. On a successful save, it takes half as much 
damage only.
 A creature Blinded by this spell makes another 
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its 
turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
 This spell dispels Darkness in its area that was 
created by any spell.
Symbol
Level 7 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 1,000+ 
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
You inscribe a harmful glyph either on a surface 
(such as a section of floor or wall) or within an ob -
ject that can be closed (such as a book or chest). The 
glyph can cover an area no larger than 10 feet in 
diameter. If you choose an object, it must remain in 
place; if it is moved more than 10 feet from where 
you cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell 
ends without being triggered.
 The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a 
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your 
spell save DC to notice.
 When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger 
and choose which effect the symbol bears: Death, 
Discord, Fear, Pain, Sleep, or Stunning. Each one is 
explained below.
 Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the 
glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed 
on a surface, common triggers include touching or 
stepping on the glyph, removing another object cov -
ering it, or approaching within a certain distance of 
it. For glyphs inscribed within an object, common 
triggers include opening that object or seeing the 
glyph.
 You can refine the trigger so that only creatures 
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph 
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set 
conditions for creatures that don’t trigger the glyph, 
such as those who say a certain password.
 Once triggered, the glyph glows, filling a 
60-foot-radius Sphere with Dim Light for 10 
minutes, after which time the spell ends. Each 
creature in the Sphere when the glyph activates is 
targeted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the 
Sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn 
there. A creature is targeted only once per turn.
 Death.  Each target makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 10d10 Necrotic damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful save.
 Discord.  Each target makes a Wisdom saving 
throw. On a failed save, a target argues with other 
creatures for 1 minute. During this time, it is inca-
pable of meaningful communication and has Disad -
vantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
 Fear.  Each target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Frightened condition for 
1 minute. While Frightened, the target must move 
at least 30 feet away from the glyph on each of its 
turns, if able.
 Pain.  Each target must succeed on a Constitution 
saving throw or have the Incapacitated condition 
for 1 minute.
 Sleep.  Each target must succeed on a Wisdom sav -
ing throw or have the Unconscious condition for 10 
minutes. A creature awakens if it takes damage or if 
someone takes an action to shake it awake.
 Stunning.  Each target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Stunned condition for 1 
minute.
Telekinesis
Level 5 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You gain the ability to move or manipulate crea -
tures or objects by thought. When you cast the spell 
and as a Magic action on your later turns before the 
spell ends, you can exert your will on one creature 
or object that you can see within range, causing the 
appropriate effect below. You can affect the same 
target round after round or choose a new one at any 
time. If you switch targets, the prior target is no 
longer affected by the spell.
 Creature.  You can try to move a Huge or smaller 
creature. The target must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw, or you move it up to 30 feet in any 
direction within the spell’s range. Until the end of 
your next turn, the creature has the Restrained con -
dition, and if you lift it into the air, it is suspended 
there. It falls at the end of your next turn unless you 
use this option on it again and it fails the save.
 Object. You can try to move a Huge or smaller 
object. If the object isn’t being worn or carried, you 
automatically move it up to 30 feet in any direction 
within the spell’s range.