System Reference Document 5.2.1
188
Size
A creature or an object belongs to a size category: 
Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan. 
A creature’s size determines how much space the 
creature occupies in combat. An object’s size affects 
its Hit Points. See also  “Breaking Objects” and “Play -
ing the Game” (“Combat”).
Skill
A skill is an area of specialization associated with 
an ability check. If you have proficiency in a skill, 
you can add your Proficiency Bonus when you make 
an ability check associated with that skill. See also  
“Playing the Game” (“Proficiency”).
Speed
A creature has a Speed, which is the distance in feet 
the creature can cover when it moves on its turn. 
See also “Climbing,” “Crawling,” “Flying,” “Jumping,” 
“Swimming” and “Playing the Game” (“Combat”).
 Special Speeds.  Some creatures have special 
speeds, such as a Burrow Speed, Climb Speed, Fly 
Speed, or Swim Speed, each of which is defined 
in this glossary. If you have more than one speed, 
choose which one to use when you move; you can 
switch between the speeds during your move. 
Whenever you switch, subtract the distance already 
moved from the new speed. The result determines 
how much farther you can move. If the result is 0 or 
less, you can’t use the new speed during the current 
move. For example, if you have a Speed of 30 and a 
Fly Speed of 40, you could fly 10 feet, walk 10 feet, 
and leap into the air to fly 20 feet more.
 Changes to Your Speeds. If an effect increases or 
decreases your Speed for a time, any special speed 
you have increases or decreases by an equal amount 
for the same duration. For example, if your Speed 
is reduced to 0 and you have a Climb Speed, your 
Climb Speed is also reduced to 0. Similarly, if your 
Speed is halved and you have a Fly Speed, your Fly 
Speed is also halved.
Spell
A spell is a magical effect that has the characteris -
tics described in “Spells.”
Spell Attack
A spell attack is an attack roll made as part of a spell 
or another magical effect. See also  “Spells” (“Casting 
Spells”).
Spellcasting Focus
A Spellcasting Focus is an object that certain crea-
tures can use in place of a spell’s Material compo -
nents if those materials aren’t consumed by the 
spell and don’t have a cost specified. Some classes 
allow its members to use certain types of Spellcast -
ing Focuses. See also  “Spells” (“Casting Spells”).
Sphere [Area of Effect]
A Sphere is an area of effect that extends in straight 
lines from a point of origin outward in all direc -
tions. The effect that creates a Sphere specifies the 
distance it extends as the radius of the Sphere.
 A Sphere’s point of origin is included in the 
Sphere’s area of effect.
Stable
A creature is Stable if it has 0 Hit Points but isn’t 
required to make Death Saving Throws. See also  
“Playing the Game” (“Damage and Healing”).
Stat Block
A stat block contains the game statistics of a mon -
ster. Each stat block includes the following informa-
tion presented after the monster’s name.
 Size. A monster is Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, 
Huge, or Gargantuan. See also  “Size.”
 Creature Type. This entry notes the family of be -
ings a monster belongs to, along with any descrip -
tive tags. See also  “Creature Type.”
 Alignment. An alignment is suggested for the 
monster, with the GM determining its actual align -
ment. See also “Alignment.”
 AC, Initiative, and HP. These entries give the 
monster’s Armor Class, Initiative, and Hit Points, 
which are detailed in “Playing the Game.” In paren -
theses after the Hit Points, the monster’s Hit Point 
Dice are provided, along with the contribution of its 
Constitution, if any, to its Hit Points. Following the 
Initiative modifier is an Initiative score. Some crea-
tures that are created by magic lack Hit Dice and 
Initiative information.
 Speed.  Here the monster’s Speed is provided, 
along with any special speeds. See also  “Burrow 
Speed,” “Climb Speed,” “Fly Speed,” and “Swim 
Speed.”
 Ability Scores. A table provides the monster’s 
ability scores, modifiers, and saving throw modifi -
ers, all of which are detailed in “Playing the Game.”
 Skills. This entry lists the monster’s skill pro -
ficiencies, if any. See also  “Playing the Game” 
(“Proficiency”).
 Resistances and Vulnerabilities. These entries 
list the monster’s Resistances and Vulnerabilities, if 
any. See also “Resistance” and “Vulnerability.”
 Immunities. This section lists the monster’s 
damage and condition Immunities, if any. See also  
“Immunity.”
 Gear.  If the monster has any equipment that can 
be given away or retrieved, it’s listed in this entry.
 Senses. This entry lists the monster’s special 
senses, such as Darkvision, and its Passive Percep -
tion. See also “Passive Perception.”
 Languages.  This entry lists any languages the 
monster knows.