System Reference Document 5.2.1
212
Bag of Devouring
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This bag resembles a Bag of Holding but is a feeding 
orifice for a gigantic extradimensional creature. 
Turning the bag inside out closes the orifice.
 The extradimensional creature attached to the 
bag can sense whatever is placed inside the bag. 
Animal or vegetable matter placed wholly in the 
bag is devoured and lost forever. When part of a liv -
ing creature is placed in the bag, as happens when 
someone reaches inside it, there is a 50 percent 
chance that the creature is pulled inside the bag. A 
creature inside the bag can take an action to try to 
escape, doing so with a successful DC 15 Strength 
(Athletics) check. Another creature can take an ac -
tion to reach into the bag to pull a creature out, do -
ing so with a successful DC 20 Strength (Athletics) 
check, provided the puller isn’t pulled inside the bag 
first. Any creature that starts its turn inside the bag 
is devoured, its body destroyed.
 Inanimate objects can be stored in the bag, which 
can hold a cubic foot of such material. However, 
once each day, the bag swallows any objects inside 
it and spits them out into another plane of existence. 
The GM determines the time and plane.
 If the bag is pierced or torn, it is destroyed, and 
anything contained within it is transported to a 
random location on the Astral Plane.
Bag of Holding
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This bag has an interior space considerably larger 
than its outside dimensions—roughly 2 feet square 
and 4 feet deep on the inside. The bag can hold up 
to 500 pounds, not exceeding a volume of 64 cubic 
feet. The bag weighs 5 pounds, regardless of its 
contents. Retrieving an item from the bag requires 
a Utilize action.
 If the bag is overloaded, pierced, or torn, it is de -
stroyed, and its contents are scattered in the Astral 
Plane. If the bag is turned inside out, its contents 
spill forth unharmed, but the bag must be put right 
before it can be used again. The bag holds enough 
air for 10 minutes of breathing, divided by the num -
ber of breathing creatures inside.
 Placing a Bag of Holding inside an extradimen -
sional space created by a Handy Haversack, Portable 
Hole, or similar item instantly destroys both items 
and opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate orig -
inates where the one item was placed inside the 
other. Any creature within a 10-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on the gate is sucked through it to a ran -
dom location on the Astral Plane. The gate then 
closes. The gate is one-way and can’t be reopened.
Bag of Tricks
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This bag made from gray, rust, or tan cloth appears 
empty. Reaching inside the bag, however, reveals 
the presence of a small, fuzzy object.
 You can take a Magic action to pull the fuzzy ob -
ject from the bag and throw it up to 20 feet. When 
the object lands, it transforms into a creature you 
determine by rolling on the table that corresponds 
to the bag’s color. See “Monsters” for the creature’s 
stat block. The creature vanishes at the next dawn 
or when it is reduced to 0 Hit Points.
 The creature is Friendly to you and your allies, 
and it acts immediately after you on your Initiative 
count. You can take a Bonus Action to command 
how the creature moves and what action it takes on 
its next turn, such as attacking an enemy. In the ab -
sence of such orders, the creature acts in a fashion 
appropriate to its nature.
 Once three fuzzy objects have been pulled from 
the bag, the bag can’t be used again until the next 
dawn.
Gray Bag of Tricks
1d8 Creature 1d8 Creature
1 Weasel 5 Panther
2 Giant Rat 6 Giant Badger
3 Badger 7 Dire Wolf
4 Boar 8 Giant Elk
Rust Bag of Tricks
1d8 Creature 1d8 Creature
1 Rat 5 Giant Goat
2 Owl 6 Giant Boar
3 Mastiff 7 Lion
4 Goat 8 Brown Bear
Tan Bag of Tricks
1d8 Creature 1d8 Creature
1 Jackal 5 Black Bear
2 Ape 6 Giant Weasel
3 Baboon 7 Giant Hyena
4 Axe Beak 8 Tiger
Bead of Force
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This small black sphere measures 3/4 of an inch in 
diameter and weighs an ounce. Typically, 1d4 + 4 
Beads of Force are found together.
 You can take a Magic action to throw the bead up 
to 60 feet. The bead explodes in a 10-foot-radius 
Sphere on impact and is destroyed. Each creature 