System Reference Document 5.2.1
172
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle 
enchantments at one creature you can see or hear 
within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or take 1d6 Psychic damage and have 
Disadvantage on the next attack roll it makes before 
the end of its next turn.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d6 
when you reach levels 5 (2d6), 11 (3d6), and 17 
(4d6).
Vitriolic Sphere
Level 4 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of bile)
Duration: Instantaneous
You point at a location within range, and a glow -
ing, 1-foot-diameter ball of acid streaks there and 
explodes in a 20-foot-radius Sphere. Each creature 
in that area makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes 10d4 Acid damage and 
another 5d4 Acid damage at the end of its next turn. 
On a successful save, a creature takes half the initial 
damage only.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The initial dam -
age increases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 
4.
Wall of Fire
Level 4 Evocation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of charcoal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a wall of fire on a solid surface within 
range. You can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20 
feet high, and 1 foot thick, or a ringed wall up to 20 
feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and 1 foot thick. The 
wall is opaque and lasts for the duration.
 When the wall appears, each creature in its area 
makes a Dexterity saving throw, taking 5d8 Fire 
damage on a failed save or half as much damage on 
a successful one.
 One side of the wall, selected by you when you 
cast this spell, deals 5d8 Fire damage to each crea-
ture that ends its turn within 10 feet of that side or 
inside the wall. A creature takes the same damage 
when it enters the wall for the first time on a turn or 
ends its turn there. The other side of the wall deals 
no damage.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4.
Wall of Force
Level 5 Evocation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An Invisible wall of force springs into existence at 
a point you choose within range. The wall appears 
in any orientation you choose, as a horizontal or 
vertical barrier or at an angle. It can be free floating 
or resting on a solid surface. You can form it into a 
hemispherical dome or a globe with a radius of up 
to 10 feet, or you can shape a flat surface made up 
of ten 10-foot-by-10-foot panels. Each panel must 
be contiguous with another panel. In any form, the 
wall is 1/4 inch thick and lasts for the duration. If 
the wall cuts through a creature’s space when it ap -
pears, the creature is pushed to one side of the wall 
(you choose which side).
 Nothing can physically pass through the wall. It 
is immune to all damage and can’t be dispelled by 
Dispel Magic. A Disintegrate spell destroys the wall 
instantly, however. The wall also extends into the 
Ethereal Plane and blocks ethereal travel through 
the wall.
Wall of Ice
Level 6 Evocation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of quartz)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a wall of ice on a solid surface within 
range. You can form it into a hemispherical dome 
or a globe with a radius of up to 10 feet, or you can 
shape a flat surface made up of ten 10-foot-square 
panels. Each panel must be contiguous with another 
panel. In any form, the wall is 1 foot thick and lasts 
for the duration.
 If the wall cuts through a creature’s space when 
it appears, the creature is pushed to one side of the 
wall (you choose which side) and makes a Dexterity 
saving throw, taking 10d6 Cold damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one.
 The wall is an object that can be damaged and 
thus breached. It has AC 12 and 30 Hit Points per 
10-foot section, and it has Immunity to Cold, Poi -
son, and Psychic damage and Vulnerability to Fire 
damage. Reducing a 10-foot section of wall to 0 Hit 
Points destroys it and leaves behind a sheet of frigid 
air in the space the wall occupied.
 A creature moving through the sheet of frigid air 
for the first time on a turn makes a Constitution 
saving throw, taking 5d6 Cold damage on a failed 
save or half as much damage on a successful one.