System Reference Document 5.2.1
140
Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a 
metal weapon or a suit of Heavy or Medium metal 
armor, that you can see within range. You cause 
the object to glow red-hot. Any creature in physical 
contact with the object takes 2d8 Fire damage when 
you cast the spell. Until the spell ends, you can take 
a Bonus Action on each of your later turns to deal 
this damage again if the object is within range.
 If a creature is holding or wearing the object and 
takes the damage from it, the creature must suc -
ceed on a Constitution saving throw or drop the 
object if it can. If it doesn’t drop the object, it has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks un -
til the start of your next turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.
Hellish Rebuke
Level 1 Evocation (Warlock)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take in response to 
taking damage from a creature that you can see within 
60 feet of yourself
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
The creature that damaged you is momentarily sur -
rounded by green flames. It makes a Dexterity sav -
ing throw, taking 2d10 Fire damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 1.
Heroes’ Feast
Level 6 Conjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a gem-encrusted bowl worth 
1,000+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You conjure a feast that appears on a surface in 
an unoccupied 10-foot Cube next to you. The feast 
takes 1 hour to consume and disappears at the end 
of that time, and the beneficial effects don’t set in 
until this hour is over. Up to twelve creatures can 
partake of the feast.
 A creature that partakes gains several benefits, 
which last for 24 hours. The creature has Resis -
tance to Poison damage, and it has Immunity to the 
Frightened and Poisoned conditions. Its Hit Point 
maximum also increases by 2d10, and it gains the 
same number of Hit Points.
Heroism
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A willing creature you touch is imbued with brav -
ery. Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to 
the Frightened condition and gains Temporary Hit 
Points equal to your spellcasting ability modifier at 
the start of each of its turns.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Hex
Level 1 Enchantment (Warlock)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (the petrified eye of a newt)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You place a curse on a creature that you can see 
within range. Until the spell ends, you deal an extra 
1d6 Necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit 
it with an attack roll. Also, choose one ability when 
you cast the spell. The target has Disadvantage on 
ability checks made with the chosen ability.
 If the target drops to 0 Hit Points before this spell 
ends, you can take a Bonus Action on a later turn to 
curse a new creature.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Your Concentra -
tion can last longer with a spell slot of level 2 (up to 
4 hours), 3–4 (up to 8 hours), or 5+ (24 hours).
Hideous Laughter
Level 1 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tart and a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature of your choice that you can see within 
range makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed 
save, it has the Prone and Incapacitated conditions 
for the duration. During that time, it laughs uncon -
trollably if it’s capable of laughter, and it can’t end 
the Prone condition on itself.
 At the end of each of its turns and each time it 
takes damage, it makes another Wisdom saving 
throw. The target has Advantage on the save if the 
save is triggered by damage. On a successful save, 
the spell ends.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Hold Monster
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 90 feet