System Reference Document 5.2.1
151
A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a 
5-foot-radius, 40-foot-high Cylinder centered on a 
point within range. Until the spell ends, Dim Light 
fills the Cylinder, and you can take a Magic action on 
later turns to move the Cylinder up to 60 feet.
 When the Cylinder appears, each creature in it 
makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, 
a creature takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and if the 
creature is shape-shifted (as a result of the Poly -
morph spell, for example), it reverts to its true form 
and can’t shape-shift until it leaves the Cylinder. 
On a successful save, a creature takes half as much 
damage only. A creature also makes this save when 
the spell’s area moves into its space and when it 
enters the spell’s area or ends its turn there. A crea-
ture makes this save only once per turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 2.
Move Earth
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a miniature shovel)
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours
Choose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on 
a side within range. You can reshape dirt, sand, or 
clay in the area in any manner you choose for the 
duration. You can raise or lower the area’s eleva-
tion, create or fill in a trench, erect or flatten a wall, 
or form a pillar. The extent of any such changes 
can’t exceed half the area’s largest dimension. For 
example, if you affect a 40-foot square, you can 
create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower the 
square’s elevation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up 
to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for 
these changes to complete. Because the terrain’s 
transformation occurs slowly, creatures in the area 
can’t usually be trapped or injured by the ground’s 
movement.
 At the end of every 10 minutes you spend concen -
trating on the spell, you can choose a new area of 
terrain to affect within range.
 This spell can’t manipulate natural stone or stone 
construction. Rocks and structures shift to accom -
modate the new terrain. If the way you shape the 
terrain would make a structure unstable, it might 
collapse.
 Similarly, this spell doesn’t directly affect plant 
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along 
with it.
Nondetection
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Ranger, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust worth 
25+ GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, you hide a target that you touch 
from Divination spells. The target can be a willing 
creature, or it can be a place or an object no larger 
than 10 feet in any dimension. The target can’t 
be targeted by any Divination spell or perceived 
through magical scrying sensors.
Passwall
Level 5 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of sesame seeds)
Duration: 1 hour
A passage appears at a point that you can see on a 
wooden, plaster, or stone surface (such as a wall, 
ceiling, or floor) within range and lasts for the dura-
tion. You choose the opening’s dimensions: up to 5 
feet wide, 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage 
creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.
 When the opening disappears, any creatures or 
objects still in the passage created by the spell are 
safely ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the 
surface on which you cast the spell.
Pass without Trace
Level 2 Abjuration (Druid, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (ashes from burned mistletoe)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You radiate a concealing aura in a 30-foot Emana-
tion for the duration. While in the aura, you and 
each creature you choose have a +10 bonus to Dex-
terity (Stealth) checks and leave no tracks.
Phantasmal Force
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to craft an illusion in the mind of a 
creature you can see within range. The target 
makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed 
save, you create a phantasmal object, creature, or 
other phenomenon that is no larger than a 10-foot 
Cube and that is perceivable only to the target for 
the duration. The phantasm includes sound, tem-
perature, and other stimuli.
 The target can take a Study action to examine the 
phantasm with an Intelligence (Investigation) check 
against your spell save DC. If the check succeeds, 