System Reference Document 5.2.1
198
ends the Poisoned condition neutralizes this poi -
son. If the poison hasn’t been neutralized before 
midnight, the creature makes a DC 17 Constitution 
saving throw, taking 31 (9d6) Poison damage on a 
failed save or half as much damage on a successful 
one.
Oil of Taggit (400 GP)
Contact Poison
A creature subjected to Oil of Taggit must succeed 
on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or have the 
Poisoned condition for 24 hours. The creature also 
has the Unconscious condition while Poisoned in 
this way. It wakes up if it takes damage.
Pale Tincture (250 GP)
Ingested Poison
A creature subjected to Pale Tincture must succeed 
on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or take 3 
(1d6) Poison damage and have the Poisoned condi -
tion. The Poisoned creature repeats the save every 
24 hours, taking 3 (1d6) Poison damage on a failed 
save. The damage the poison deals can’t be healed 
by any means while the creature remains Poisoned. 
After seven successful saves against the poison, the 
creature is no longer Poisoned.
Purple Worm Poison (2,000 GP)
Injury Poison
A creature subjected to Purple Worm Poison makes 
a DC 21 Constitution saving throw, taking 35 (10d6) 
Poison damage on a failed save or half as much dam -
age on a successful one.
Serpent Venom (200 GP)
Injury Poison
A creature subjected to Serpent Venom must suc -
ceed on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw, taking 
10 (3d6) Poison damage on a failed save or half as 
much damage on a successful one.
Spider’s Sting (200 GP)
Injury Poison
A creature subjected to Spider’s Sting must succeed 
on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or have the 
Poisoned condition for 1 hour. If the creature fails 
the save by 5 or more, the creature also has the Un -
conscious condition while Poisoned in this way. The 
creature wakes up if it takes damage or if another 
creature takes an action to shake it awake.
Torpor (600 GP)
Ingested Poison
A creature subjected to Torpor poison must succeed 
on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or have the 
Poisoned condition for 4d6 hours. The creature’s 
Speed is halved while the creature is Poisoned in 
this way.
Truth Serum (150 GP)
Ingested Poison
A creature subjected to Truth Serum must succeed 
on a DC 11 Constitution saving throw or have the 
Poisoned condition for 1 hour. The Poisoned crea -
ture can’t knowingly communicate a lie.
Wyvern Poison (1,200 GP)
Injury Poison
A creature subjected to Wyvern Poison makes a DC 
14 Constitution saving throw, taking 24 (7d6) Poi -
son damage on a failed save or half as much damage 
on a successful one.