System Reference Document 5.2.1
143
 The cloud moves 10 feet away from you in a direc -
tion you choose at the start of each of your turns.
Inflict Wounds
Level 1 Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 2d10 Necrotic damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 1.
Insect Plague
Level 5 Conjuration (Cleric, Druid, Sorcerer)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a locust)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Swarming locusts fill a 20-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on a point you choose within range. The 
Sphere remains for the duration, and its area is 
Lightly Obscured and Difficult Terrain.
 When the swarm appears, each creature in it 
makes a Constitution saving throw, taking 4d10 
Piercing damage on a failed save or half as much 
damage on a successful one. A creature also makes 
this save when it enters the spell’s area for the first 
time on a turn or ends its turn there. A creature 
makes this save only once per turn.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d10 for each spell slot level above 5.
Instant Summons
Level 6 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute or Ritual
Range: Touch
Components:  V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch the sapphire used in the casting and an 
object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest 
dimension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an Invis -
ible mark on that object and invisibly inscribes the 
object’s name on the sapphire. Each time you cast 
this spell, you must use a different sapphire.
 Thereafter, you can take a Magic action to speak 
the object’s name and crush the sapphire. The ob -
ject instantly appears in your hand regardless of 
physical or planar distances, and the spell ends.
 If another creature is holding or carrying the ob -
ject, crushing the sapphire doesn’t transport it, but 
instead you learn who that creature is and where 
that creature is currently located.
Irresistible Dance
Level 6 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One creature that you can see within range must 
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, 
the target dances comically until the end of its next 
turn, during which it must spend all its movement 
to dance in place.
 On a failed save, the target has the Charmed con -
dition for the duration. While Charmed, the target 
dances comically, must use all its movement to 
dance in place, and has Disadvantage on Dexterity 
saving throws and attack rolls, and other creatures 
have Advantage on attack rolls against it. On each 
of its turns, the target can take an action to collect 
itself and repeat the save, ending the spell on itself 
on a success.
Invisibility
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an eyelash in gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A creature you touch has the Invisible condition un -
til the spell ends. The spell ends early immediately 
after the target makes an attack roll, deals damage, 
or casts a spell.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 2.
Jump
Level 1 Transmutation (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, 
Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Touch
Component: V, S, M (a grasshopper’s hind leg)
Duration: 1 minute
You touch a willing creature. Once on each of its 
turns until the spell ends, that creature can jump up 
to 30 feet by spending 10 feet of movement.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 1.
Knock
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous