System Reference Document 5.2.1
207
Magic Item Tools
Item Category Required Tool
Armor Leatherworker’s Tools, Smith’s 
Tools, or Weaver’s Tools depend-
ing on the kind of armor as noted 
in the tools’ descriptions
Potion Alchemist’s Supplies or Herbalism 
Kit
Ring Jeweler’s Tools
Rod Woodcarver’s Tools
Scroll Calligrapher’s Supplies
Staff Woodcarver’s Tools
Wand Woodcarver’s Tools
Weapon Leatherworker’s Tools, Smith’s 
Tools, or Woodcarver’s Tools de-
pending on the kind of weapon as 
noted in the tools’ descriptions
Wondrous Item Tinker’s Tools or the tool required 
to make the nonmagical item on 
which the magic item is based
Spells
If a magic item allows its user to cast any spells 
from it, you must have all those spells prepared ev -
ery day you spend crafting the item.
Time and Cost
Crafting a magic item takes an amount of time and 
money based on the item’s rarity as shown in the 
Magic Item Crafting Time and Cost table.
 Work per Day. For each day of crafting, you must 
work for 8 hours. If an item requires multiple days, 
those days needn’t be consecutive.
 Assistants.  Characters can combine their efforts 
to shorten the crafting time. Divide the time needed 
to create an item by the number of characters work -
ing on it. Normally, only one other character can 
assist you, but the GM might allow more assistants.
 Raw Materials. The cost in the table represents 
the raw materials needed to make a magic item. The 
GM determines whether appropriate raw materials 
are available. In a city, there is a 75 percent chance 
that the materials are available, and in any other 
settlement, that chance is 25 percent. If materials 
aren’t available, you must wait at least 7 days before 
checking on the availability again.
 If a magic item incorporates an item that has a 
purchase cost (such as a weapon or a suit of armor), 
you must also pay that entire cost or craft that item 
using the rules in “Equipment.” For example, to 
make +1 Armor (Plate Armor), you must pay 3,500 
GP or pay 2,000 GP and craft the armor.
Magic Item Crafting Time and Cost
Item Rarity  Time*  Cost*
Common 5 days 50 GP
Uncommon 10 days 200 GP
Rare 50 days 2,000 GP
Very Rare 125 days 20,000 GP
Legendary 250 days 100,000 GP
*The time and cost are halved for a consumable item other than 
a Spell Scroll , whose crafting time and cost are given in “Equipment.”
Sentient Magic Items
Some magic items have sentience and personality. 
Such an item might be possessed, haunted by the 
spirit of a previous owner, or self-aware thanks to 
the magic used to create it. A sentient item might be 
a cherished ally to its wielder or a continual thorn in 
the side.
 Most sentient items are weapons, but other kinds 
of items can manifest sentience. Single-use items 
such as potions and scrolls are never sentient.
 The GM controls sentient magic items and their 
activated properties. A bearer who maintains a 
good relationship with the item can access those 
properties. If the relationship is strained, a conflict 
can ensue (see “Conflict” below).
Sentient Magic Item Traits
When you make a sentient magic item, you create 
the item’s persona much as you would create an 
NPC, with these exceptions.
Abilities
A sentient magic item has Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma scores. Choose the item’s abilities, or de -
termine them randomly as follows: roll 4d6 for each 
one, dropping the lowest roll and totaling the rest.
Alignment
A sentient magic item has an alignment. Its creator 
or nature might suggest an alignment. Otherwise, 
pick an alignment or roll on the Sentient Item’s 
Alignment table.
Communication
A sentient item communicates by sharing its emo -
tions, broadcasting its thoughts telepathically, or 
speaking aloud. You can choose how it communi -
cates or roll on the Sentient Item’s Communication 
table.
Senses
A sentient item can perceive its surroundings out to 
a limited range. You can choose its senses or roll on 
the Sentient Item’s Senses table.