System Reference Document 5.2.1
161
is otherwise up to you. The spell lasts for the 
duration.
 The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up 
to physical inspection. For example, if you use this 
spell to add a hat to a creature’s outfit, objects pass 
through the hat.
 A creature that takes the Study action to examine 
a target can make an Intelligence (Investigation) 
check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it 
becomes aware that the target is disguised.
Sending
Level 3 Divination (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Unlimited
Components: V, S, M (a copper wire)
Duration: Instantaneous
You send a short message of 25 words or fewer to 
a creature you have met or a creature described to 
you by someone who has met it. The target hears 
the message in its mind, recognizes you as the 
sender if it knows you, and can answer in a like 
manner immediately. The spell enables targets to 
understand the meaning of your message.
 You can send the message across any distance and 
even to other planes of existence, but if the target 
is on a different plane than you, there is a 5 percent 
chance that the message doesn’t arrive. You know if 
the delivery fails.
 Upon receiving your message, a creature can 
block your ability to reach it again with this spell for 
8 hours. If you try to send another message during 
that time, you learn that you are blocked, and the 
spell fails.
Sequester
Level 7 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (gem dust worth 5,000+ GP, 
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
With a touch, you magically sequester an object or a 
willing creature. For the duration, the target has the 
Invisible condition and can’t be targeted by Divina-
tion spells, detected by magic, or viewed remotely 
with magic.
 If the target is a creature, it enters a state of sus -
pended animation; it has the Unconscious condition, 
doesn’t age, and doesn’t need food, water, or air.
 You can set a condition for the spell to end early. 
The condition can be anything you choose, but it 
must occur or be visible within 1 mile of the target. 
Examples include “after 1,000 years” or “when the 
tarrasque awakens.” This spell also ends if the tar -
get takes any damage.
Shapechange
Level 9 Transmutation (Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a jade circlet worth 1,500+ GP)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You shape-shift into another creature for the dura-
tion or until you take a Magic action to shape-shift 
into a different eligible form. The new form must be 
of a creature that has a Challenge Rating no higher 
than your level or Challenge Rating. You must have 
seen the sort of creature before, and it can’t be a 
Construct or an Undead.
 When you cast the spell, you gain a number of 
Temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points of the 
first form into which you shape-shift. These Tempo -
rary Hit Points vanish if any remain when the spell 
ends.
 Your game statistics are replaced by the stat block 
of the chosen form, but you retain your creature 
type; alignment; personality; Intelligence, Wisdom, 
and Charisma scores; Hit Points; Hit Point Dice; pro -
ficiencies; and ability to communicate. If you have 
the Spellcasting feature, you retain it too.
 Upon shape-shifting, you determine whether your 
equipment drops to the ground or changes in size 
and shape to fit the new form while you’re in it. 
Shatter
Level 2 Evocation (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a chip of mica)
Duration: Instantaneous
A loud noise erupts from a point of your choice 
within range. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius 
Sphere centered there makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 3d8 Thunder damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. A Con -
struct has Disadvantage on the save.
 A nonmagical object that isn’t being worn or car -
ried also takes the damage if it’s in the spell’s area.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage in -
creases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 2.
Shield
Level 1 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you are 
hit by an attack roll or targeted by the Magic Missile  
spell
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
An imperceptible barrier of magical force protects 
you. Until the start of your next turn, you have a +5 