System Reference Document 5.2.1
32
one of your Bardic Inspiration dice. A creature can 
have only one Bardic Inspiration die at a time.
 Once within the next hour when the creature fails 
a D20 Test, the creature can roll the Bardic Inspira-
tion die and add the number rolled to the d20, po -
tentially turning the failure into a success. A Bardic 
Inspiration die is expended when it’s rolled.
 Number of Uses. You can confer a Bardic Inspira-
tion die a number of times equal to your Charisma 
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all ex -
pended uses when you finish a Long Rest.
 At Higher Levels. Your Bardic Inspiration die 
changes when you reach certain Bard levels, as 
shown in the Bardic Die column of the Bard Fea-
tures table. The die becomes a d8 at level 5, a d10 at 
level 10, and a d12 at level 15.
Level 1: Spellcasting
You have learned to cast spells through your bardic 
arts. See “Spells” for the rules on spellcasting. The 
information below details how you use those rules 
with Bard spells, which appear in the Bard spell list 
later in the class’s description.
 Cantrips.  You know two cantrips of your choice 
from the Bard spell list. Dancing Lights  and Vicious 
Mockery are recommended.
 Whenever you gain a Bard level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips with another cantrip of your 
choice from the Bard spell list.
 When you reach Bard levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another cantrip of your choice from the Bard spell 
list, as shown in the Cantrips column of the Bard 
Features table.
 Spell Slots. The Bard Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ 
spells. You regain all expended slots when you fin -
ish a Long Rest.
 Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the 
list of level 1+ spells that are available for you to 
cast with this feature. To start, choose four level 1 
spells from the Bard spell list. Charm Person , Color 
Spray, Dissonant Whispers, and Healing Word are 
recommended.
 The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Bard levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Bard Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional spells from the 
Bard spell list until the number of spells on your list 
matches the number on the table. The chosen spells 
must be of a level for which you have spell slots. 
For example, if you’re a level 3 Bard, your list of 
prepared spells can include six spells of levels 1 and 
2 in any combination.
 If another Bard feature gives you spells that you 
always have prepared, those spells don’t count 
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Bard spells for you.
 Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Bard level, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Bard spell for which you have spell 
slots.
 Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is your spellcast -
ing ability for your Bard spells.
 Spellcasting Focus. You can use a Musical Instru -
ment as a Spellcasting Focus for your Bard spells.
Level 2: Expertise
You gain Expertise (see “Rules Glossary”) in two of 
your skill proficiencies of your choice. Performance 
and Persuasion are recommended if you have profi -
ciency in them.
 At Bard level 9, you gain Expertise in two more of 
your skill proficiencies of your choice.
Level 2: Jack of All Trades
You can add half your Proficiency Bonus (round 
down) to any ability check you make that uses a 
skill proficiency you lack and that doesn’t otherwise 
use your Proficiency Bonus.
 For example, if you make a Strength (Athletics) 
check and lack Athletics proficiency, you can add 
half your Proficiency Bonus to the check.
Level 3: Bard Subclass
You gain a Bard subclass of your choice. The College 
of Lore subclass is detailed after this class’s descrip -
tion. A subclass is a specialization that grants you 
features at certain Bard levels. For the rest of your 
career, you gain each of your subclass’s features 
that are of your Bard level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Bard levels 8, 
12, and 16.
Level 5: Font of Inspiration
You now regain all your expended uses of Bardic In -
spiration when you finish a Short or Long Rest.
 In addition, you can expend a spell slot (no action 
required) to regain one expended use of Bardic 
Inspiration.