System Reference Document 5.2.1
120
choose an area in a large body of water, you instead 
create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from one side 
of the area to the other and then crashes. Any Huge 
or smaller vehicles in the wave’s path are carried 
with it to the other side. Any Huge or smaller vehi -
cles struck by the wave have a 25 percent chance of 
capsizing.
 The water level remains elevated until the spell 
ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect 
produced a wave, the wave repeats on the start of 
your next turn while the flood effect lasts.
 Part Water. You part water in the area and cre -
ate a trench. The trench extends across the spell’s 
area, and the separated water forms a wall to either 
side. The trench remains until the spell ends or you 
choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills 
in the trench over the course of the next round until 
the normal water level is restored.
 Redirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the 
area to move in a direction you choose, even if the 
water has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in 
other unlikely directions. The water in the area 
moves as you direct it, but once it moves beyond the 
spell’s area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain. 
The water continues to move in the direction you 
chose until the spell ends or you choose a different 
effect.
 Whirlpool. You cause a whirlpool to form in the 
center of the area, which must be at least 50 feet 
square and 25 feet deep. The whirlpool lasts until 
you choose a different effect or the spell ends. The 
whirlpool is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet 
wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature in the 
water and within 25 feet of the whirlpool is pulled 
10 feet toward it. When a creature enters the whirl -
pool for the first time on a turn or ends its turn 
there, it makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed 
save, the creature takes 2d8 Bludgeoning dam -
age. On a successful save, the creature takes half 
as much damage. A creature can swim away from 
the whirlpool only if it first takes an action to pull 
away and succeeds on a Strength (Athletics) check 
against your spell save DC.
Control Weather
Level 8 Transmutation (Cleric, Druid, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (burning incense)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You take control of the weather within 5 miles of 
you for the duration. You must be outdoors to cast 
this spell, and it ends early if you go indoors.
 When you cast the spell, you change the current 
weather conditions, which are determined by the 
GM. You can change precipitation, temperature, 
and wind. It takes 1d4 × 10 minutes for the new 
conditions to take effect. Once they do so, you can 
change the conditions again. When the spell ends, 
the weather gradually returns to normal.
 When you change the weather conditions, find 
a current condition on the following tables and 
change its stage by one, up or down. When changing 
the wind, you can change its direction.
Precipitation
Stage Condition
1 Clear
2 Light clouds
3 Overcast or ground fog
4 Rain, hail, or snow
5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard
Temperature
Stage Condition
1 Heat wave
2 Hot
3 Warm
4 Cool
5 Cold
6 Freezing
Wind
Stage Condition
1 Calm
2 Moderate wind
3 Strong wind
4 Gale
5 Storm
Counterspell
Level 3 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when you see a 
creature within 60 feet of yourself casting a spell with 
Verbal, Somatic, or Material components
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process of 
casting a spell. The creature makes a Constitution 
saving throw. On a failed save, the spell dissipates 
with no effect, and the action, Bonus Action, or Re -
action used to cast it is wasted. If that spell was cast 
with a spell slot, the slot isn’t expended.
Create Food and Water
Level 3 Conjuration (Cleric, Paladin)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create 45 pounds of food and 30 gallons of 
fresh water on the ground or in containers within 
range—both useful in fending off the hazards of 
malnutrition and dehydration. The food is bland but 
nourishing and looks like a food of your choice, and 
the water is clean. The food spoils after 24 hours if 
uneaten.