257
System Reference Document 5.2.1
Damage Notation
A stat block usually provides both a number and a 
die expression for each instance of damage. For ex -
ample, an attack might deal 4 (1d4 + 2) damage on a 
hit. You decide whether to use the number or the die 
expression in parentheses; don’t use both.
Multiattack
Some creatures can make more than one attack 
when they take the Attack action. Such creatures 
have the Multiattack entry in the “Actions” section 
of their stat block. This entry details the attacks a 
creature can make, as well as any additional abili -
ties it can use, as part of the Attack action.
Spellcasting
If a monster can cast any spells, its stat block lists 
the spells and provides the monster’s spellcasting 
ability, spell save DC (if any spells require a saving 
throw), and spell attack bonus (if any spells require 
an attack roll). Unless noted otherwise, a spell of 
level 1 or higher is always cast at its lowest possible 
level and can’t be cast at a higher level.
 A monster’s spell can have special rules or restric -
tions. For example, a green hag can cast the Invisi -
bility spell, but the spell has a “self only” restriction, 
which means the spell affects only the hag. 
 Spell Components. The Spellcasting trait notes 
whether the monster’s spellcasting ignores the 
need for certain spell components. If any spell com -
ponents are required, describe the monster’s use of 
Verbal, Somatic, or Material components to signal to 
characters that it is casting a spell. A monster that 
requires Material components has them.
 Casting Times of 1+ Minutes. If a spell has a cast -
ing time of 1 minute or more yet is listed in a spell -
casting action, the monster doesn’t cast the spell in 
just one action unless the action’s description states 
otherwise; the monster must take the Magic action 
on each of its turns and maintain Concentration to 
cast the spell, as described in “Rules Glossary.”
Bonus Action
If a monster has Bonus Action options, they are 
listed in this section. See “Playing the Game” for de -
tails on Bonus Actions.
Reactions
If the monster has Reaction options, those are listed 
in this section along with their triggers. See “Play -
ing the Game” for details on Reactions.
Legendary Actions
If the monster has Legendary Action options, those 
are listed in this section. A Legendary Action is an 
action that a monster can take immediately after 
another creature’s turn. Only one of these actions 
can be taken at a time and only after another crea-
ture’s turn ends. The monster can’t take a Legend -
ary Action if it has the Incapacitated condition or is 
otherwise unable to take actions.
 The monster has a limited number of Legendary 
Action uses, and that number is specified in the 
stat block. The monster expends one use whenever 
it takes a Legendary Action, and it regains all ex -
pended uses at the start of each of its turns.
Limited Usage
Some parts of a stat block have restrictions on the 
number of times they can be used. Here are the 
most common ways that usage is limited:
X/Day. This notation means the stat block part can 
be used a certain number of times (represented 
by X) and that a monster must finish a Long Rest 
to regain expended uses. For example, a Reaction 
that includes “1/Day” means the Reaction can be 
taken once and that the monster must finish a 
Long Rest to take it again.
Recharge X–Y. This notation means a monster 
can use the stat block part once. At the start of 
each of the monster’s turns, roll 1d6. If the roll 
is within the number range given in the notation 
(represented by X–Y), the monster regains the use 
of that part, which also recharges when the mon -
ster finishes a Short or Long Rest. For example, 
“Recharge 5–6” in an action means a monster can 
take the action once. Then, at the start of each of 
the monster’s turns, it regains the use of that ac -
tion if it rolls a 5 or 6 on 1d6.
Recharge after a Short or Long Rest. This nota -
tion means the monster can use the stat block 
part once and must then finish a Short or Long 
Rest to use it again.