System Reference Document 5.2.1
51
expend 1 Focus Point to take both the Disengage 
and the Dodge actions as a Bonus Action.
 Step of the Wind. You can take the Dash action 
as a Bonus Action. Alternatively, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to take both the Disengage and Dash 
actions as a Bonus Action, and your jump distance is 
doubled for the turn.
Level 2: Unarmored Movement
Your speed increases by 10 feet while you aren’t 
wearing armor or wielding a Shield. This bonus 
increases when you reach certain Monk levels, as 
shown on the Monk Features table.
Level 2: Uncanny Metabolism
When you roll Initiative, you can regain all ex -
pended Focus Points. When you do so, roll your 
Martial Arts die, and regain a number of Hit Points 
equal to your Monk level plus the number rolled.
 Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest.
Level 3: Deflect Attacks
When an attack roll hits you and its damage in -
cludes Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage, 
you can take a Reaction to reduce the attack’s total 
damage against you. The reduction equals 1d10 plus 
your Dexterity modifier and Monk level.
 If you reduce the damage to 0, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to redirect some of the attack’s force. 
If you do so, choose a creature you can see within 5 
feet of yourself if the attack was a melee attack or a 
creature you can see within 60 feet of yourself that 
isn’t behind Total Cover if the attack was a ranged 
attack. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity 
saving throw or take damage equal to two rolls of 
your Martial Arts die plus your Dexterity modifier. 
The damage is the same type dealt by the attack.
Level 3: Monk Subclass
You gain a Monk subclass of your choice. The War -
rior of the Open Hand subclass is detailed after this 
class’s description. A subclass is a specialization 
that grants you features at certain Monk levels. For 
the rest of your career, you gain each of your sub -
class’s features that are of your Monk level or lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Monk levels 8, 
12, and 16.
Level 4: Slow Fall
You can take a Reaction when you fall to reduce any 
damage you take from the fall by an amount equal 
to five times your Monk level.
Level 5: Extra Attack
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn.
Level 5: Stunning Strike
Once per turn when you hit a creature with a Monk 
weapon or an Unarmed Strike, you can expend 1 
Focus Point to attempt a stunning strike. The target 
must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target has the Stunned condition until the 
start of your next turn. On a successful save, the 
target’s Speed is halved until the start of your next 
turn, and the next attack roll made against the tar -
get before then has Advantage.
Level 6: Empowered Strikes
Whenever you deal damage with your Unarmed 
Strike, it can deal your choice of Force damage or its 
normal damage type.
Level 7: Evasion
When you’re subjected to an effect that allows you 
to make a Dexterity saving throw to take only half 
damage, you instead take no damage if you succeed 
on the saving throw and only half damage if you fail.
 You don’t benefit from this feature if you have the 
Incapacitated condition.
Level 9: Acrobatic Movement
While you aren’t wearing armor or wielding a 
Shield, you gain the ability to move along vertical 
surfaces and across liquids on your turn without 
falling during the movement.
Level 10: Heightened Focus
Your Flurry of Blows, Patient Defense, and Step of 
the Wind gain the following benefits.
 Flurry of Blows. You can expend 1 Focus Point 
to use Flurry of Blows and make three Unarmed 
Strikes with it instead of two.