System Reference Document 5.2.1
136
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell 
slot’s level for the spell’s level in the stat block.
Giant Insect
Large Beast, Unaligned
AC 11 + the spell’s level
HP 30 + 10 for each spell level above 4
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (Wasp only)
MOD SAVE MOD SAVE MOD SAVE
Str 17 +3 +3     dex 13 +1 +1 con 15 +2 +2
int 4 −3 −3 WiS 14 +2 +2 chA 3 −4 −4
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 12
Languages Understands the languages you know
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus)
Traits
Spider Climb. The insect can climb difficult surfaces, 
including along ceilings, without needing to make an 
ability check.
Actions
Multiattack. The insect makes a number of attacks 
equal to half this spell’s level (round down).
Poison Jab. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell 
attack modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d6 + 3 plus the spell’s 
level Piercing damage plus 1d4 Poison damage.
Web Bolt (Spider Only). Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus 
equals your spell attack modifier, range 60 ft. Hit: 1d10 
+ 3 plus the spell’s level Bludgeoning damage, and the 
target’s Speed is reduced to 0 until the start of the in-
sect’s next turn.
Bonus Actions
Venomous Spew (Centipede Only). Constitution Saving 
Throw: Your spell save DC, one creature the insect can 
see within 10 feet. Failure: The target has the Poisoned 
condition until the start of the insect’s next turn.
Glibness
Level 8 Enchantment (Bard, Warlock)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 hour
Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma 
check, you can replace the number you roll with a 
15. Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that 
would determine if you are telling the truth indi -
cates that you are being truthful.
Globe of Invulnerability
Level 6 Abjuration (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a glass bead)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An immobile, shimmering barrier appears in a 10-
foot Emanation around you and remains for the 
duration.
 Any spell of level 5 or lower cast from outside the 
barrier can’t affect anything within it. Such a spell 
can target creatures and objects within the barrier, 
but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the 
area within the barrier is excluded from areas of 
effect created by such spells.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The barrier 
blocks spells of 1 level higher for each spell slot level 
above 6.
Glyph of Warding
Level 3 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (powdered diamond worth 200+ 
GP, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
You inscribe a glyph that later unleashes a magical 
effect. You inscribe it either on a surface (such as a 
table or a section of floor) or within an object that 
can be closed (such as a book or chest) to conceal 
the glyph. The glyph can cover an area no larger 
than 10 feet in diameter. If the surface or object is 
moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this 
spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends with -
out being triggered.
 The glyph is nearly imperceptible and requires a 
successful Wisdom (Perception) check against your 
spell save DC to notice.
 When you inscribe the glyph, you set its trigger 
and choose whether it’s an explosive rune or a spell 
glyph, as explained below.
 Set the Trigger. You decide what triggers the 
glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed 
on a surface, common triggers include touching or 
stepping on the glyph, removing another object cov -
ering it, or approaching within a certain distance of 
it. For glyphs inscribed within an object, common 
triggers include opening that object or seeing the 
glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.
 You can refine the trigger so that only creatures 
of certain types activate it (for example, the glyph 
could be set to affect Aberrations). You can also set 
conditions for creatures that don’t trigger the glyph, 
such as those who say a certain password.
 Explosive Rune. When triggered, the glyph erupts 
with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius Sphere cen -
tered on the glyph. Each creature in the area makes 
a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 5d8 Acid, 
Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder damage (your 