System Reference Document 5.2.1
246
 
Spell
Charge 
Cost
Cone of Cold 5
Fireball (level 5 version) 5
Globe of Invulnerability 6
Hold Monster 5
Levitate 2
Lightning Bolt (level 5 version) 5
Magic Missile 1
Ray of Enfeeblement 1
Wall of Force 5
 Regaining Charges. The staff regains 2d8 + 4 
expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the 
last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff retains its +2 
bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls but loses all 
other properties. On a 20, the staff regains 1d8 + 2 
charges.
 Retributive Strike. You can take a Magic action to 
break the staff over your knee or against a solid sur -
face. The staff is destroyed and releases its magic in 
an explosion that fills a 30-foot Emanation originat -
ing from itself. You have a 50 percent chance to in -
stantly travel to a random plane of existence, avoid -
ing the explosion. If you fail to avoid the effect, you 
take Force damage equal to 16 times the number 
of charges in the staff. Each other creature in the 
area makes a DC 17 Dexterity saving throw. On a 
failed save, a creature takes Force damage equal to 
4 times the number of charges in the staff. On a suc -
cessful save, a creature takes half as much damage.
Staff of Striking
Staff, Very Rare (Requires Attunement)
This staff can be wielded as a magic Quarterstaff 
that grants a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage 
rolls made with it.
 The staff has 10 charges. When you hit with 
a melee attack using it, you can expend up to 3 
charges. For each charge you expend, the target 
takes an extra 1d6 Force damage.
 Regaining Charges. The staff regains 1d6 + 4 
expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the 
last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, the staff becomes a 
nonmagical Quarterstaff.
Staff of Swarming Insects
Staff, Rare (Requires Attunement by a Bard, Cleric, 
Druid, Sorcerer, Warlock, or Wizard)
This staff has 10 charges.
 Insect Cloud. While holding the staff, you can 
take a Magic action and expend 1 charge to cause 
a swarm of harmless flying insects to fill a 30-
foot Emanation originating from you. The insects 
remain for 10 minutes, making the area Heavily 
Obscured for creatures other than you. A strong 
wind (like that created by Gust of Wind ) disperses 
the swarm and ends the effect.
 Spells. While holding the staff, you can cast one of 
the spells on the following table from it, using your 
spell save DC and spell attack modifier. The table in -
dicates how many charges you must expend to cast 
the spell. 
Spell Charge 
Cost
Giant Insect 4
Insect Plague 5
 Regaining Charges. The staff regains 1d6 + 4 
expended charges daily at dawn. If you expend the 
last charge, roll 1d20. On a 1, a swarm of insects 
consumes and destroys the staff, then disperses.
Staff of the Magi
Staff, Legendary (Requires Attunement by a Sorcerer, 
Warlock, or Wizard)
This staff has 50 charges and can be wielded as a 
magic Quarterstaff that grants a +2 bonus to attack 
rolls and damage rolls made with it. While you hold 
it, you gain a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls.
 Spell Absorption.  While holding the staff, you 
have Advantage on saving throws against spells. 
In addition, you can take a Reaction when another 
creature casts a spell that targets only you. If you 
do, the staff absorbs the magic of the spell, cancel -
ing its effect and gaining a number of charges equal 
to the absorbed spell’s level. However, if doing so 
brings the staff’s total number of charges above 50, 
the staff explodes as if you activated its Retributive 
Strike (see below).
 Spells. While holding the staff, you can cast one of 
the spells on the following table from it, using your 
spell save DC. The table indicates how many charges 
you must expend to cast the spell.
 
Spell
Charge 
Cost
Arcane Lock 0
Conjure Elemental 7
Detect Magic 0
Dispel Magic 3
Enlarge/Reduce 0
Fireball (level 7 version) 7
Flaming Sphere 2
Ice Storm 4
Invisibility 2
Knock 2
Light 0
Lightning Bolt (level 7 version) 7