System Reference Document 5.2.1
229
action to lower the hood, reducing the lantern’s light 
to Dim Light in a 5-foot radius.
Luck Blade
Weapon (Glaive, Greatsword, Longsword, Rapier, 
Scimitar, Sickle, or Shortsword), Legendary (Requires 
Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. While the weapon is 
on your person, you also gain a +1 bonus to saving 
throws.
 Luck. If the weapon is on your person, you can call 
on its luck (no action required) to reroll one failed 
D20 Test if you don’t have the Incapacitated condi -
tion. You must use the second roll. Once used, this 
property can’t be used again until the next dawn.
 Wish. The weapon has 1d3 charges. While holding 
it, you can expend 1 charge and cast Wish from it. 
Once used, this property can’t be used again until 
the next dawn. The weapon loses this property if it 
has no charges.
Mace of Disruption
Weapon (Mace), Rare (Requires Attunement)
When you hit a Fiend or an Undead with this magic 
weapon, that creature takes an extra 2d6 Radiant 
damage. If the target has 25 Hit Points or fewer 
after taking this damage, it must succeed on a DC 
15 Wisdom saving throw or be destroyed. On a suc -
cessful save, the creature has the Frightened condi -
tion until the end of your next turn.
 Light. While you hold this weapon, it sheds Bright 
Light in a 20-foot radius and Dim Light for an addi -
tional 20 feet.
Mace of Smiting
Weapon (Mace), Rare 
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage 
rolls made with this magic weapon. The bonus in -
creases to +3 when you use the weapon to attack a 
Construct.
 When you roll a 20 on an attack roll made with 
this weapon, the target takes an extra 7 Bludgeon -
ing damage, or 14 Bludgeoning damage if it’s a 
Construct. If a Construct has 25 Hit Points or fewer 
after taking this damage, it is destroyed.
Mace of Terror
Weapon (Mace), Rare (Requires Attunement)
This magic weapon has 3 charges and regains 1d3 
expended charges daily at dawn. While holding 
the weapon, you can take a Magic action and ex -
pend 1 charge to release a wave of terror from it. 
Each creature of your choice within 30 feet of you 
must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw or 
have the Frightened condition for 1 minute. While 
Frightened in this way, a creature must spend its 
turns trying to move as far away from you as it can, 
and it can’t make Opportunity Attacks. For its ac -
tion, it can use only the Dash action or try to escape 
from an effect that prevents it from moving. If it 
has nowhere it can move, the creature can take the 
Dodge action. At the end of each of its turns, a crea-
ture repeats the save, ending the effect on itself on 
a success.
Mantle of Spell Resistance
Wondrous Item, Rare (Requires Attunement)
You have Advantage on saving throws against spells 
while you wear this cloak.
Manual of Bodily Health
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This book contains health and nutrition tips, and 
its words are charged with magic. If you spend 48 
hours over a period of 6 days or fewer studying the 
book’s contents and practicing its guidelines, your 
Constitution increases by 2, to a maximum of 30. 
The manual then loses its magic but regains it in a 
century.
Manual of Gainful Exercise
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This book describes fitness exercises, and its words 
are charged with magic. If you spend 48 hours over 
a period of 6 days or fewer studying the book’s con -
tents and practicing its guidelines, your Strength in -
creases by 2, to a maximum of 30. The manual then 
loses its magic but regains it in a century.
Manual of Golems
Wondrous Item, Very Rare 
This tome contains information and incantations 
necessary to make a particular type of golem. The 
GM chooses the type or determines it randomly by 
rolling on the accompanying table. To decipher and 
use the manual, you must be a spellcaster with at 
least two level 5 spell slots. A creature that can’t 
use a Manual of Golems and attempts to read it takes 
6d6 Psychic damage.
 To create a golem, you must spend the time shown 
on the table, working without interruption with the 
manual at hand and resting no more than 8 hours 
per day. You must also pay the specified cost to pur -
chase supplies.
 Once you finish creating the golem, the book is 
consumed in eldritch flames. The golem becomes 
animate when the ashes of the manual are sprinkled 
on it. See “Monsters” for the golem’s stat block. The 
golem is under your control, and it understands and 
obeys your commands.