System Reference Document 5.2.1
224
cause the armor to assume the appearance of a nor -
mal set of clothing or some other kind of armor. You 
decide what it looks like—including color, style, and 
accessories—but the armor retains its normal bulk 
and weight. The illusory appearance lasts until you 
use this property again or doff the armor.
Gloves of Missile Snaring
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
If you’re hit by an attack roll made with a Ranged 
or Thrown weapon while wearing these gloves, you 
can take a Reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 
plus your Dexterity modifier if you have a free hand. 
If you reduce the damage to 0, you can catch the am -
munition or weapon if it is small enough for you to 
hold in that hand.
Gloves of Swimming and Climbing
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing these gloves, you have a Climb Speed 
and a Swim Speed equal to your Speed, and you gain 
a +5 bonus to Strength (Athletics) checks made to 
climb or swim.
Gloves of Thievery
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
These gloves are imperceptible while worn. While 
wearing them, you gain a +5 bonus to Dexterity 
(Sleight of Hand) checks.
Goggles of Night
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
While wearing these dark lenses, you have Darkvi -
sion out to 60 feet. If you already have Darkvision, 
wearing the goggles increases its range by 60 feet.
Hammer of Thunderbolts
Weapon (Maul or Warhammer), Legendary (Requires 
Attunement)
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 The weapon has 5 charges. You can expend 1 
charge and make a ranged attack with the weapon, 
hurling it as if it had the Thrown property with a 
normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet. 
If the attack hits, the weapon unleashes a thunder -
clap audible out to 300 feet. The target and every 
creature within 30 feet of it other than you must 
succeed on a DC 17 Constitution saving throw or 
have the Stunned condition until the end of your 
next turn. Immediately after hitting or missing, the 
weapon flies back to your hand. The weapon re -
gains 1d4 + 1 expended charges daily at dawn.
 Giant’s Bane. While you are attuned to the 
weapon and wearing either a Belt of Giant Strength 
or Gauntlets of Ogre Power to which you are also at-
tuned, you gain the following benefits:
Giants’ Bane.  When you roll a 20 on the d20 for an 
attack roll made with this weapon against a Giant, 
the creature must succeed on a DC 17 Constitu -
tion saving throw or die.
Might of Giants.  The Strength score bestowed by 
your Belt of Giant Strength or Gauntlets of Ogre 
Power increases by 4, to a maximum of 30.
Handy Haversack
Wondrous Item, Rare 
This backpack has a central pouch and two side 
pouches, each of which is an extradimensional 
space. Each side pouch can hold up to 200 pounds 
of material, not exceeding a volume of 25 cubic feet. 
The central pouch can hold up to 500 pounds of ma-
terial, not exceeding a volume of 64 cubic feet. The 
haversack always weighs 5 pounds, regardless of its 
contents.
 Retrieving an item from the haversack requires a 
Utilize action or a Bonus Action (your choice). When 
you reach into the haversack for a specific item, the 
item is always magically on top.
 If any of its pouches is overloaded, pierced, or 
torn, the haversack ruptures and is destroyed. If the 
haversack is destroyed, its contents are lost forever, 
although an Artifact always turns up again some -
where. If the haversack is turned inside out, its con -
tents spill forth unharmed, and the haversack must 
be put right before it can be used again.
 Each pouch of the haversack holds enough air for 
10 minutes of breathing, divided by the number of 
breathing creatures inside.
 Placing the haversack inside an extradimensional 
space created by a Bag of Holding, Portable Hole, 
or similar item instantly destroys both items and 
opens a gate to the Astral Plane. The gate originates 
where the one item was placed inside the other. Any 
creature within 10 feet of the gate and not behind 
Total Cover is sucked through it and deposited in 
a random location on the Astral Plane. The gate 
then closes. The gate is one-way only and can’t be 
reopened.
Hat of Disguise
Wondrous Item, Uncommon (Requires Attunement)
While wearing this hat, you can cast the Disguise 
Self spell. The spell ends if the hat is removed.
Hat of Many Spells
Wondrous Item, Very Rare (Requires Attunement by a 
Wizard)
This pointed hat has the following properties.
 Spellcasting Focus. While holding the hat, you 
can use it as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard 
spells. Any spell you cast using the hat gains a spe -
cial Somatic component: you must reach into the hat 
and “pull” the spell out of it.