System Reference Document 5.2.1
133
Flesh to Stone
Level 6 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a cockatrice feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to turn one creature that you can see 
within range into stone. The target makes a Consti -
tution saving throw. On a failed save, it has the Re -
strained condition for the duration. On a successful 
save, its Speed is 0 until the start of your next turn. 
Constructs automatically succeed on the save.
 A Restrained target makes another Constitution 
saving throw at the end of each of its turns. If it 
successfully saves against this spell three times, 
the spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is 
turned to stone and has the Petrified condition for 
the duration. The successes and failures needn’t be 
consecutive; keep track of both until the target col -
lects three of a kind.
 If you maintain your Concentration on this spell 
for the entire possible duration, the target is Petri -
fied until the condition is ended by Greater Resto -
ration or similar magic.
Floating Disk
Level 1 Conjuration (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of mercury)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of 
force, 3 feet in diameter and 1 inch thick, that floats 
3 feet above the ground in an unoccupied space 
of your choice that you can see within range. The 
disk remains for the duration and can hold up to 
500 pounds. If more weight is placed on it, the spell 
ends, and everything on the disk falls to the ground.
 The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet 
of it. If you move more than 20 feet away from it, the 
disk follows you so that it remains within 20 feet of 
you. It can move across uneven terrain, up or down 
stairs, slopes and the like, but it can’t cross an ele -
vation change of 10 feet or more. For example, the 
disk can’t move across a 10-foot-deep pit, nor could 
it leave such a pit if it was created at the bottom.
 If you move more than 100 feet from the disk (typ -
ically because it can’t move around an obstacle to 
follow you), the spell ends.
Fly
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a feather)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the 
target gains a Fly Speed of 60 feet and can hover. 
When the spell ends, the target falls if it is still aloft 
unless it can stop the fall.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 3.
Fog Cloud
Level 1 Conjuration (Druid, Ranger, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create a 20-foot-radius Sphere of fog centered 
on a point within range. The Sphere is Heavily Ob -
scured. It lasts for the duration or until a strong 
wind (such as one created by Gust of Wind ) dis-
perses it.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The fog’s radius 
increases by 20 feet for each spell slot level above 1.
Forbiddance
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: 10 minutes or Ritual
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,000+ GP)
Duration: 1 day
You create a ward against magical travel that pro -
tects up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a 
height of 30 feet above the floor. For the duration, 
creatures can’t teleport into the area or use portals, 
such as those created by the Gate  spell, to enter the 
area. The spell proofs the area against planar travel, 
and therefore prevents creatures from accessing 
the area by way of the Astral Plane, the Ethereal 
Plane, the Feywild, the Shadowfell, or the Plane Shift  
spell.
 In addition, the spell damages types of creatures 
that you choose when you cast it. Choose one or 
more of the following: Aberrations, Celestials, Ele -
mentals, Fey, Fiends, and Undead. When a creature 
of a chosen type enters the spell’s area for the first 
time on a turn or ends its turn there, the creature 
takes 5d10 Radiant or Necrotic damage (your 
choice when you cast this spell).
 You can designate a password when you cast the 
spell. A creature that speaks the password as it en -
ters the area takes no damage from the spell.
 The spell’s area can’t overlap with the area of 
another Forbiddance spell. If you cast Forbiddance 
every day for 30 days in the same location, the spell 
lasts until it is dispelled, and the Material compo -
nents are consumed on the last casting.