System Reference Document 5.2.1
139
Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical Dark -
ness created by spells of a level lower than this 
spell can’t extinguish the light.
Peaceful Rest.  Dead bodies interred in the area 
can’t be turned into Undead.
Extradimensional Interference.  Creatures of any 
types you choose can’t enter or exit the area using 
teleportation or interplanar travel.
Fear. Creatures of any types you choose have the 
Frightened condition while in the area.
Resistance.  Creatures of any types you choose have 
Resistance to one damage type of your choice 
while in the area.
Silence. No sound can emanate from within the 
area, and no sound can reach into it.
Tongues. Creatures of any types you choose can 
communicate with any other creature in the area 
even if they don’t share a common language.
Vulnerability. Creatures of any types you choose 
have Vulnerability to one damage type of your 
choice while in the area.
Hallucinatory Terrain
Level 4 Illusion (Bard, Druid, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a mushroom)
Duration: 24 hours
You make natural terrain in a 150-foot Cube in 
range look, sound, and smell like another sort of 
natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be 
made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some 
other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be 
made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like 
a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and 
smooth road. Manufactured structures, equipment, 
and creatures within the area aren’t changed.
 The tactile characteristics of the terrain are un -
changed, so creatures entering the area are likely 
to notice the illusion. If the difference isn’t obvious 
by touch, a creature examining the illusion can take 
the Study action to make an Intelligence (Investiga-
tion) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve 
it. If a creature discerns that the terrain is illusory, 
the creature sees a vague image superimposed on 
the real terrain.
Harm
Level 6 Necromancy (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash virulent magic on a creature you can 
see within range. The target makes a Constitu -
tion saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 14d6 
Necrotic damage, and its Hit Point maximum is re -
duced by an amount equal to the Necrotic damage 
it took. On a successful save, it takes half as much 
damage only. This spell can’t reduce a target’s Hit 
Point maximum below 1.
Haste
Level 3 Transmutation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within 
range. Until the spell ends, the target’s Speed is 
doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to Armor Class, it has 
Advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains 
an additional action on each of its turns. That ac -
tion can be used to take only the Attack (one attack 
only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Utilize action.
 When the spell ends, the target is Incapacitated 
and has a Speed of 0 until the end of its next turn, as 
a wave of lethargy washes over it.
Heal
Level 6 Abjuration (Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature that you can see within range. 
Positive energy washes through the target, restor -
ing 70 Hit Points. This spell also ends the Blinded, 
Deafened, and Poisoned conditions on the target.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 10 for each spell slot level above 6.
Healing Word
Level 1 Abjuration (Bard, Cleric, Druid)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature of your choice that you can see within 
range regains Hit Points equal to 2d4 plus your 
spellcasting ability modifier.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing in-
creases by 2d4 for each spell slot level above 1.
Heat Metal
Level 2 Transmutation (Bard, Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of iron and a flame)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute