System Reference Document 5.2.1
168
 If the object is worn or carried by a creature, that 
creature must succeed on a Strength saving throw, 
or you pull the object away and move it up to 30 feet 
in any direction within the spell’s range.
 You can exert fine control on objects with your 
telekinetic grip, such as manipulating a simple tool,
Telepathic Bond
Level 5 Divination (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action or Ritual
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (two eggs)
Duration: 1 hour
You forge a telepathic link among up to eight willing 
creatures of your choice within range, psychically 
linking each creature to all the others for the dura-
tion. Creatures that can’t communicate in any lan -
guages aren’t affected by this spell.
 Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate 
telepathically through the bond whether or not they 
share a language. The communication is possible 
over any distance, though it can’t extend to other 
planes of existence.
Teleport
Level 7 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell instantly transports you and up to eight 
willing creatures that you can see within range, or a 
single object that you can see within range, to a des -
tination you select. If you target an object, it must 
be Large or smaller, and it can’t be held or carried 
by an unwilling creature.
 The destination you choose must be known to 
you, and it must be on the same plane of existence 
as you. Your familiarity with the destination deter -
mines whether you arrive there successfully. The 
GM rolls 1d100 and consults the Teleportation Out -
come table and the explanations after it.
Teleportation Outcome
Familiarity Mishap
Similar 
Area
Off 
Target
On 
Target
Permanent circle — — — 01–00
Linked object — — — 01–00
Very familiar 01–05 06–13 14–24 25–00
Seen casually 01–33 34–43 44–53 54–00
Viewed once or 
described
01–43 44–53 54–73 74–00
False destination 01–50 51–00 — —
 Familiarity.  Here are the meanings of the terms 
in the table’s Familiarity column:
• “Permanent circle” means a permanent teleporta-
tion circle whose sigil sequence you know.
• “Linked object” means you possess an object taken 
from the desired destination within the last six 
months, such as a book from a wizard’s library.
• “Very familiar” is a place you have visited often, 
a place you have carefully studied, or a place you 
can see when you cast the spell.
• “Seen casually” is a place you have seen more 
than once but with which you aren’t very familiar.
• “Viewed once or described” is a place you have 
seen once, possibly using magic, or a place you 
know through someone else’s description, per-
haps from a map.
• “False destination” is a place that doesn’t exist. 
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy’s sanctum but 
instead viewed an illusion, or you are attempting 
to teleport to a location that no longer exists.
 Mishap. The spell’s unpredictable magic results in 
a difficult journey. Each teleporting creature (or the 
target object) takes 3d10 Force damage, and the GM 
rerolls on the table to see where you wind up (mul -
tiple mishaps can occur, dealing damage each time).
 Similar Area. You and your group (or the target 
object) appear in a different area that’s visually or 
thematically similar to the target area. You appear 
in the closest similar place. If you are heading for 
your home laboratory, for example, you might ap -
pear in another person’s laboratory in the same city.
 Off Target. You and your group (or the target ob-
ject) appear 2d12 miles away from the destination 
in a random direction. Roll 1d8 for the direction: 1, 
east; 2, southeast; 3, south; 4, southwest; 5, west; 6, 
northwest; 7, north; or 8, northeast.
 On Target. You and your group (or the target ob-
ject) appear where you intended.
Teleportation Circle
Level 5 Conjuration (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, M (rare inks worth 50+ GP, which the 
spell consumes)
Duration: 1 round
As you cast the spell, you draw a 5-foot-radius circle 
on the ground inscribed with sigils that link your 
location to a permanent teleportation circle of your 
choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is 
on the same plane of existence as you. A shimmer -
ing portal opens within the circle you drew and 
remains open until the end of your next turn. Any 
creature that enters the portal instantly appears 
within 5 feet of the destination circle or in the near -
est unoccupied space if that space is occupied.