System Reference Document 5.2.1
57
Level 15: Smite of Protection
Your magical smite now radiates protective energy. 
Whenever you cast Divine Smite , you and your allies 
have Half Cover while in your Aura of Protection. 
The aura has this benefit until the start of your next 
turn.
Level 20: Holy Nimbus
As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of Pro -
tection with holy power, granting the benefits be -
low for 10 minutes or until you end them (no action 
required). Once you use this feature, you can’t use it 
again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also re -
store your use of it by expending a level 5 spell slot 
(no action required).
 Holy Ward. You have Advantage on any saving 
throw you are forced to make by a Fiend or an 
Undead.
 Radiant Damage. Whenever an enemy starts its 
turn in the aura, that creature takes Radiant dam -
age equal to your Charisma modifier plus your Pro -
ficiency Bonus.
 Sunlight.  The aura is filled with Bright Light that 
is sunlight.
Ranger
Core Ranger Traits
Primary Ability Dexterity and Wisdom
Hit Point Die D10 per Ranger level
Saving Throw 
Proficiencies
Strength and Dexterity
Skill Proficiencies Choose 3: Animal Handling, 
Athletics, Insight, Investigation, 
Nature, Perception, Stealth, or 
Survival
Weapon Proficiencies Simple and Martial weapons
Armor Training Light and Medium armor and 
Shields
Starting Equipment Choose A or B: (A) Studded 
Leather Armor, Scimitar, 
Shortsword, Longbow, 20 Ar -
rows, Quiver, Druidic Focus 
(sprig of mistletoe), Explorer’s 
Pack, and 7 GP; or (B) 150 GP
Becoming a Ranger …
As a Level 1 Character
• Gain all the traits in the Core Ranger Traits table.
• Gain the Ranger’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Ranger Features table.
As a Multiclass Character
• Gain the following traits from the Core Ranger 
Traits table: Hit Point Die, proficiency with Mar-
tial weapons, proficiency in one skill of your 
choice from the Ranger’s skill list, and training 
with Light and Medium armor and Shields.
• Gain the Ranger’s level 1 features, which are 
listed in the Ranger Features table. See the mul -
ticlassing rules in “Character Creation” to deter -
mine your available spell slots.
Ranger Class Features
As a Ranger, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Ranger levels. These 
features are listed in the Ranger Features table.
Level 1: Spellcasting
You have learned to channel the magical essence of 
nature to cast spells. See “Spells” for the rules on 
spellcasting. The information below details how you 
use those rules with Ranger spells, which appear in 
the Ranger spell list later in the class’s description.
 Spell Slots. The Ranger Features table shows 
how many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ 
spells. You regain all expended slots when you fin -
ish a Long Rest.