System Reference Document 5.2.1
159
With a touch, you revive a dead creature that has 
been dead for no more than a century, didn’t die of 
old age, and wasn’t Undead when it died.
 The creature returns to life with all its Hit Points. 
This spell also neutralizes any poisons that affected 
the creature at the time of death. This spell closes 
all mortal wounds and restores any missing body 
parts.
 Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The tar -
get takes a −4 penalty to D20 Tests. Every time the 
target finishes a Long Rest, the penalty is reduced 
by 1 until it becomes 0.
 Casting this spell to revive a creature that has 
been dead for 365 days or longer taxes you. Until 
you finish a Long Rest, you can’t cast spells again, 
and you have Disadvantage on D20 Tests.
Reverse Gravity
Level 7 Transmutation (Druid, Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell reverses gravity in a 50-foot-radius, 100-
foot high Cylinder centered on a point within range. 
All creatures and objects in that area that aren’t 
anchored to the ground fall upward and reach the 
top of the Cylinder. A creature can make a Dexterity 
saving throw to grab a fixed object it can reach, thus 
avoiding the fall upward.
 If a ceiling or an anchored object is encountered 
in this upward fall, creatures and objects strike it 
just as they would during a downward fall. If an af -
fected creature or object reaches the Cylinder’s top 
without striking anything, it hovers there for the 
duration. When the spell ends, affected objects and 
creatures fall downward.
Revivify
Level 3 Necromancy (Cleric, Druid, Paladin, Ranger)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth 300+ GP, which 
the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You touch a creature that has died within the last 
minute. That creature revives with 1 Hit Point. This 
spell can’t revive a creature that has died of old age, 
nor does it restore any missing body parts.
Rope Trick
Level 2 Transmutation (Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a segment of rope)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a rope. One end of it hovers upward until 
the rope hangs perpendicular to the ground or the 
rope reaches a ceiling. At the rope’s upper end, an 
Invisible 3-foot-by-5-foot portal opens to an extra-
dimensional space that lasts until the spell ends. 
That space can be reached by climbing the rope, 
which can be pulled into or dropped out of it.
 The space can hold up to eight Medium or smaller 
creatures. Attacks, spells, and other effects can’t 
pass into or out of the space, but creatures inside 
it can see through the portal. Anything inside the 
space drops out when the spell ends.
Sacred Flame
Evocation Cantrip (Cleric)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Flame-like radiance descends on a creature that you 
can see within range. The target must succeed on 
a Dexterity saving throw or take 1d8 Radiant dam -
age. The target gains no benefit from Half Cover or 
Three-Quarters Cover for this save.
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d8 
when you reach levels 5 (2d8), 11 (3d8), and 17 
(4d8).
Sanctuary
Level 1 Abjuration (Cleric)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shard of glass from a mirror)
Duration: 1 minute
You ward a creature within range. Until the spell 
ends, any creature who targets the warded crea-
ture with an attack roll or a damaging spell must 
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or either choose 
a new target or lose the attack or spell. This spell 
doesn’t protect the warded creature from areas of 
effect. The spell ends if the warded creature makes 
an attack roll, casts a spell, or deals damage.
Scorching Ray
Level 2 Evocation (Sorcerer, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl three fiery rays. You can hurl them at one 
target within range or at several. Make a ranged 
spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the target takes 
2d6 Fire damage.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You create one 
additional ray for each spell slot level above 2.