System Reference Document 5.2.1
72
against the number of spells you can prepare with 
this feature, but those spells otherwise count as 
Warlock spells for you.
 Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Warlock level, you can replace one spell on 
your list with another Warlock spell of an eligible 
level.
 Spellcasting Ability. Charisma is the spellcasting 
ability for your Warlock spells.
 Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Warlock spells.
Level 2: Magical Cunning
You can perform an esoteric rite for 1 minute. At 
the end of it, you regain expended Pact Magic spell 
slots but no more than a number equal to half your 
maximum (round up). Once you use this feature, you 
can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest.
Level 3: Warlock Subclass
You gain a Warlock subclass of your choice. The 
Fiend Patron subclass is detailed after this class’s 
description. A subclass is a specialization that 
grants you features at certain Warlock levels. For 
the rest of your career, you gain each of your sub -
class’s features that are of your Warlock level or 
lower.
Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat (see 
“Feats”) or another feat of your choice for which you 
qualify. You gain this feature again at Warlock levels 
8, 12, and 16.
Level 9: Contact Patron
In the past, you usually contacted your patron 
through intermediaries. Now you can communicate 
directly; you always have the Contact Other Plane  
spell prepared. With this feature, you can cast the 
spell without expending a spell slot to contact your 
patron, and you automatically succeed on the spell’s 
saving throw.
 Once you cast the spell with this feature, you can’t 
do so in this way again until you finish a Long Rest.
Level 11: Mystic Arcanum
Your patron grants you a magical secret called an 
arcanum. Choose one level 6 Warlock spell as this 
arcanum.
 You can cast your arcanum spell once without ex -
pending a spell slot, and you must finish a Long Rest 
before you can cast it in this way again.
 As shown in the Warlock Features table, you gain 
another Warlock spell of your choice that can be 
cast in this way when you reach Warlock levels 
13 (level 7 spell), 15 (level 8 spell), and 17 (level 9 
spell). You regain all uses of your Mystic Arcanum 
when you finish a Long Rest.
 Whenever you gain a Warlock level, you can re -
place one of your arcanum spells with another War -
lock spell of the same level.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of 
Fate is recommended.
Level 20: Eldritch Master
When you use your Magical Cunning feature, you 
regain all your expended Pact Magic spell slots.
Eldritch Invocation Options
Eldritch Invocation options appear in alphabetical 
order.
Agonizing Blast
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock, a Warlock Cantrip 
That Deals Damage
Choose one of your known Warlock cantrips that 
deals damage. You can add your Charisma modifier 
to that spell’s damage rolls.
 Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
eligible cantrip.
Armor of Shadows
You can cast Mage Armor on yourself without ex-
pending a spell slot.
Ascendant Step
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock
You can cast Levitate on yourself without expending 
a spell slot.
Devil’s Sight
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock
You can see normally in Dim Light and Darkness—
both magical and nonmagical—within 120 feet of 
yourself.
Devouring Blade
Prerequisite: Level 12+ Warlock, Thirsting Blade 
Invocation
The Extra Attack of your Thirsting Blade invocation 
confers two extra attacks rather than one.
Eldritch Mind
You have Advantage on Constitution saving throws 
that you make to maintain Concentration.
Eldritch Smite
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock, Pact of the Blade 
Invocation
Once per turn when you hit a creature with your 
pact weapon, you can expend a Pact Magic spell slot 
to deal an extra 1d8 Force damage to the target, 