System Reference Document 5.2.1
150
into Difficult Terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise 
impede movement through the area. Any piece 
of the illusory terrain (such as a rock or stick) 
that is removed from the spell’s area disappears 
immediately.
 Creatures with Truesight can see through the illu -
sion to the terrain’s true form; however, all other el -
ements of the illusion remain, so while the creature 
is aware of the illusion’s presence, the creature can 
still physically interact with the illusion.
Mirror Image
Level 2 Illusion (Bard, Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your 
space. Until the spell ends, the duplicates move with 
you and mimic your actions, shifting position so it’s 
impossible to track which image is real.
 Each time a creature hits you with an attack roll 
during the spell’s duration, roll a d6 for each of 
your remaining duplicates. If any of the d6s rolls 
a 3 or higher, one of the duplicates is hit instead of 
you, and the duplicate is destroyed. The duplicates 
otherwise ignore all other damage and effects. The 
spell ends when all three duplicates are destroyed.
 A creature is unaffected by this spell if it has the 
Blinded condition, Blindsight, or Truesight.
Mislead
Level 5 Illusion (Bard, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: Self
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You gain the Invisible condition at the same time 
that an illusory double of you appears where you 
are standing. The double lasts for the duration, but 
the invisibility ends immediately after you make an 
attack roll, deal damage, or cast a spell.
 As a Magic action, you can move the illusory dou -
ble up to twice your Speed and make it gesture, 
speak, and behave in whatever way you choose. It is 
intangible and invulnerable.
 You can see through its eyes and hear through its 
ears as if you were located where it is.
Misty Step
Level 2 Conjuration (Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard)
Casting Time: Bonus Action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up 
to 30 feet to an unoccupied space you can see.
Modify Memory
Level 5 Enchantment (Bard, Wizard)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to reshape another creature’s mem -
ories. One creature that you can see within range 
makes a Wisdom saving throw. If you are fighting 
the creature, it has Advantage on the save. On a 
failed save, the target has the Charmed condition 
for the duration. While Charmed in this way, the 
target also has the Incapacitated condition and is 
unaware of its surroundings, though it can hear 
you. If it takes any damage or is targeted by another 
spell, this spell ends, and no memories are modified.
 While this charm lasts, you can affect the target’s 
memory of an event that it experienced within the 
last 24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 min -
utes. You can permanently eliminate all memory of 
the event, allow the target to recall the event with 
perfect clarity, change its memory of the event’s de -
tails, or create a memory of some other event.
 You must speak to the target to describe how its 
memories are affected, and it must be able to under -
stand your language for the modified memories to 
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of 
your description. If the spell ends before you finish 
describing the modified memories, the creature’s 
memory isn’t altered. Otherwise, the modified 
memories take hold when the spell ends.
 A modified memory doesn’t necessarily affect 
how a creature behaves, particularly if the mem -
ory contradicts the creature’s natural inclinations, 
alignment, or beliefs. An illogical modified memory, 
such as a false memory of how much the creature 
enjoyed swimming in acid, is dismissed as a bad 
dream. The GM might deem a modified memory too 
nonsensical to affect a creature.
 A Remove Curse or Greater Restoration spell cast 
on the target restores the creature’s true memory.
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can alter the 
target’s memories of an event that took place up to 
7 days ago (level 6 spell slot), 30 days ago (level 7 
spell slot), 365 days ago (level 8 spell slot), or any 
time in the creature’s past (level 9 spell slot).
Moonbeam
Level 2 Evocation (Druid)
Casting Time: Action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a moonseed leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute