System Reference Document 5.2.1
183
enough for you to assist verbally or physically when 
they make an ability check. That ally has Advantage 
on the next ability check they make with the chosen 
skill or tool. This benefit expires if the ally doesn’t 
use it before the start of your next turn. The GM has 
final say on whether your assistance is possible.
 Assist an Attack Roll. You momentarily distract 
an enemy within 5 feet of you, giving Advantage to 
the next attack roll by one of your allies against that 
enemy. This benefit expires at the start of your next 
turn.
Heroic Inspiration
If you (a player character) have Heroic Inspiration, 
you can expend it to reroll any die immediately af -
ter rolling it, and you must use the new roll.
 If you gain Heroic Inspiration but already have it, 
it’s lost unless you give it to a player character who 
lacks it.
Hide [Action]
With the Hide action, you try to hide yourself. To do 
so, you must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity (Stealth) 
check while you’re Heavily Obscured or behind 
Three-Quarters Cover or Total Cover, and you must 
be out of any enemy’s line of sight; if you can see a 
creature, you can discern whether it can see you.
 On a successful check, you have the Invisible con -
dition while hidden. Make note of your check’s total, 
which is the DC for a creature to find you with a 
Wisdom (Perception) check.
 You stop being hidden immediately after any of 
the following occurs: you make a sound louder than 
a whisper, an enemy finds you, you make an attack 
roll, or you cast a spell with a Verbal component.
High Jump
When you make a High Jump, you leap into the 
air a number of feet equal to 3 plus your Strength 
modifier (minimum of 0 feet) if you move at least 
10 feet on foot immediately before the jump. When 
you make a standing High Jump, you can jump only 
half that distance. Either way, each foot of the jump 
costs a foot of movement.
 You can extend your arms half your height above 
yourself during the jump. Thus, you can reach a dis -
tance equal to the height of the jump plus 1 1/2 times 
your height.
Hit Point Dice
Hit Point Dice, or Hit Dice for short, help determine 
a player character’s Hit Point maximum, as ex -
plained in “Character Creation.” Most monsters also 
have Hit Dice. A creature can spend Hit Dice during 
a Short Rest to regain Hit Points. See also  “Short 
Rest.”
Hit Points
Hit Points (HP) are a measure of how difficult it is 
to kill or destroy a creature or an object. Damage 
reduces Hit Points, and healing restores them. 
You can’t have more Hit Points than your Hit Point 
maximum, and you can’t have less than 0. See also  
“Breaking Objects” and “Playing the Game” (“Dam -
age and Healing”).
Hostile [Attitude]
A Hostile creature views you unfavorably. You have 
Disadvantage on an ability check to influence a Hos -
tile creature. See also  “Influence.”
Hover
Some creatures can hover, as noted in their stat 
blocks, and some spells and other effects grant the 
ability to hover. Hovering while flying prevents 
you from falling in certain circumstances. See also  
“Flying.”
Illusions
Spells and other effects sometimes create magical il-
lusions. Such an effect defines what the illusion does 
and which senses or mental faculties it deceives.
 If an illusion manifests in space, the illusion is 
insubstantial and weightless, yet it seems to be 
affected by the environment as if the illusion were 
real unless the effect that created it specifies oth -
erwise. For example, a visual illusion of a creature 
casts shadows and reflections, and wind appears 
to affect the illusory creature. Similarly, an audible 
illusion echoes in an echoey space.
Immunity
If you have Immunity to a damage type or a condi -
tion, it doesn’t affect you in any way.
Improvised Weapons
An improvised weapon is an object wielded as a 
makeshift weapon, such as broken glass, a table leg, 
or a frying pan. A Simple or Martial weapon also 
counts as an improvised weapon if it’s wielded in 
a way contrary to its design; if you use a Ranged 
weapon to make a melee attack or throw a Me -
lee weapon that lacks the Thrown property, the 
weapon counts as an improvised weapon. An impro -
vised weapon follows the rules below.
 Proficiency. Don’t add your Proficiency Bonus to 
attack rolls with an improvised weapon.
 Damage.  On a hit, the weapon deals 1d4 damage 
of a type the GM thinks is appropriate for the object.
 Range.  If you throw the weapon, it has a normal 
range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet.
 Weapon Equivalents. If an improvised weapon 
resembles a Simple or Martial weapon, the GM may 
say it functions as that weapon and uses that weap -
on’s rules. For example, the GM could treat a table 
leg as a Club.