System Reference Document 5.2.1
33
Level 7: Countercharm
You can use musical notes or words of power to dis -
rupt mind-influencing effects. If you or a creature 
within 30 feet of you fails a saving throw against an 
effect that applies the Charmed or Frightened con -
dition, you can take a Reaction to cause the save to 
be rerolled, and the new roll has Advantage.
Level 10: Magical Secrets
You’ve learned secrets from various magical tradi -
tions. Whenever you reach a Bard level (including 
this level) and the Prepared Spells number in the 
Bard Features table increases, you can choose any 
of your new prepared spells from the Bard, Cleric, 
Druid, and Wizard spell lists, and the chosen spells 
count as Bard spells for you (see a class’s section for 
its spell list). In addition, whenever you replace a 
spell prepared for this class, you can replace it with 
a spell from those lists.
Level 18: Superior Inspiration
When you roll Initiative, you regain expended uses 
of Bardic Inspiration until you have two if you have 
fewer than that.
Level 19: Epic Boon
You gain an Epic Boon feat (see “Feats”) or another 
feat of your choice for which you qualify. Boon of 
Spell Recall is recommended.
Level 20: Words of Creation
You have mastered two of the Words of Creation: 
the words of life and death. You therefore always 
have the Power Word Heal and Power Word Kill 
spells prepared. When you cast either spell, you can 
target a second creature with it if that creature is 
within 10 feet of the first target.
Bard Spell List
This section presents the Bard spell list. The spells 
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, 
and each spell’s school of magic is listed. In the Spe -
cial column, C means the spell requires Concentra-
tion, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it requires a 
specific Material component.
Cantrips (Level 0 Bard Spells)
Spell School Special
Dancing Lights Illusion C
Light Evocation —
Mage Hand Conjuration —
Mending Transmutation —
Message Transmutation —
Minor Illusion Illusion —
Spell School Special
Prestidigitation Transmutation —
Starry Wisp Evocation —
True Strike Divination —
Vicious Mockery Enchantment —
Level 1 Bard Spells
Spell School Special
Animal Friendship Enchantment —
Bane Enchantment C
Charm Person Enchantment —
Color Spray Illusion —
Command Enchantment —
Comprehend Languages Divination R
Cure Wounds Abjuration —
Detect Magic Divination C, R
Disguise Self Illusion —
Dissonant Whispers Enchantment —
Faerie Fire Evocation C
Feather Fall Transmutation —
Healing Word Abjuration —
Heroism Enchantment C
Hideous Laughter Enchantment C
Identify Divination R, M
Illusory Script Illusion R, M
Longstrider Transmutation —
Silent Image Illusion C
Sleep Enchantment C
Speak with Animals Divination R
Thunderwave Evocation —
Unseen Servant Conjuration R
Level 2 Bard Spells
Spell School Special
Aid Abjuration —
Animal Messenger Enchantment R
Blindness/Deafness Transmutation —
Calm Emotions Enchantment C
Detect Thoughts Divination C
Enhance Ability Transmutation C
Enlarge/Reduce Transmutation C
Enthrall Enchantment C
Heat Metal Transmutation C
Hold Person Enchantment C