System Reference Document 5.2.1
219
scales and gift them. Other times, hunters carefully 
preserve the hide of a dead dragon. In either case, 
Dragon Scale Mail is highly valued.
 While wearing this armor, you gain a +1 bonus to 
Armor Class, you have Advantage on saving throws 
against the breath weapons of Dragons, and you 
have Resistance to one damage type determined by 
the kind of dragon that provided the scales (see the 
accompanying table).
 Additionally, you can focus your senses as a Magic 
action to discern the distance and direction to the 
closest dragon within 30 miles of yourself that is 
of the same type as the armor. This action can’t be 
used again until the next dawn.
Dragon Resistance Dragon Resistance
Black Acid Gold Fire
Blue Lightning Green Poison
Brass Fire Red Fire
Bronze Lightning Silver Cold
Copper Acid White Cold
Dragon Slayer
Weapon (Any Simple or Martial), Rare 
You gain a +1 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon.
 The weapon deals an extra 3d6 damage of the 
weapon’s type if the target is a Dragon.
Dust of Disappearance
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This powder resembles fine sand. There is enough 
of it for one use. When you take a Utilize action to 
throw the dust into the air, you and each creature 
and object within a 10-foot Emanation originating 
from you have the Invisible condition for 2d4 min -
utes. The duration is the same for all subjects, and 
the dust is consumed when its magic takes effect. 
Immediately after an affected creature makes an at -
tack roll, deals damage, or casts a spell, the Invisible 
condition ends for that creature.
Dust of Dryness
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
This small packet contains 1d6 + 4 pinches of dust. 
As a Utilize action, you can sprinkle a pinch of the 
dust over water, turning up to a 15-foot Cube of 
water into one marble-sized pellet, which floats 
or rests near where the dust was sprinkled. The 
pellet’s weight is negligible. A creature can take 
a Utilize action to smash the pellet against a hard 
surface, causing the pellet to shatter and release the 
water the dust absorbed. Doing so destroys the pel -
let and ends its magic.
 As a Utilize action, you can sprinkle a pinch of the 
dust on an Elemental within 5 feet of yourself that 
is composed mostly of water (such as a Water Ele -
mental). Such a creature exposed to a pinch of the 
dust makes a DC 13 Constitution saving throw, tak -
ing 10d6 Necrotic damage on a failed save or half as 
much damage on a successful one.
Dust of Sneezing and Choking
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
Found in a small container, this powder resembles 
Dust of Disappearance, and Identify reveals it to be 
such. There is enough of it for one use.
 As a Utilize action, you can throw the dust into the 
air, forcing yourself and every creature in a 30-foot 
Emanation originating from you to make a DC 15 
Constitution saving throw. Constructs, Elementals, 
Oozes, Plants, and Undead succeed on the save 
automatically.
 On a failed save, a creature begins sneezing un -
controllably; it has the Incapacitated condition and 
is suffocating. The creature repeats the save at the 
end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on 
a success. The effect also ends on any creature tar -
geted by a Lesser Restoration  spell.
Dwarven Plate
Armor (Half Plate Armor or Plate Armor), Very Rare 
While wearing this armor, you gain a +2 bonus to 
Armor Class. In addition, if an effect moves you 
against your will along the ground, you can take a 
Reaction to reduce the distance you are moved by 
up to 10 feet.
Dwarven Thrower
Weapon (Warhammer), Very Rare (Requires 
Attunement by a Dwarf or a Creature Attuned to a Belt 
of Dwarvenkind)
You gain a +3 bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls 
made with this magic weapon. It has the Thrown 
property with a normal range of 20 feet and a long 
range of 60 feet. When you hit with a ranged attack 
using this weapon, it deals an extra 1d8 Force dam -
age, or an extra 2d8 Force damage if the target is 
a Giant. Immediately after hitting or missing, the 
weapon flies back to your hand.
Efficient Quiver
Wondrous Item, Uncommon 
Each of the quiver’s three compartments connects 
to an extradimensional space that allows the quiver 
to hold numerous items while never weighing more 
than 2 pounds. The shortest compartment can hold 
up to 60 Arrows, Bolts, or similar objects. The mid -
size compartment holds up to 18 Javelins or similar 
objects. The longest compartment holds up to 6 long 
objects, such as bows, Quarterstaffs, or Spears.
 You can draw any item the quiver contains as if 
doing so from a regular quiver or scabbard.