System Reference Document 5.2.1
15
or make an attack roll as part of a spell, an attack 
has the following structure:
1: Choose a Target. Pick a target within your at -
tack’s range: a creature, an object, or a location.
2: Determine Modifiers. The GM determines 
whether the target has Cover (see the next sec -
tion) and whether you have Advantage or Dis -
advantage against the target. In addition, spells, 
special abilities, and other effects can apply pen -
alties or bonuses to your attack roll.
3: Resolve the Attack.  Make the attack roll, as 
detailed earlier in “Playing the Game.” On a hit, 
you roll damage unless the particular attack 
has rules that specify otherwise. Some attacks 
cause special effects in addition to or instead of 
damage.
Cover
Walls, trees, creatures, and other obstacles can pro -
vide cover, making a target more difficult to harm. 
As detailed in the Cover table, there are three de -
grees of cover, each of which gives a different bene -
fit to a target.
 A target can benefit from cover only when an at -
tack or other effect originates on the opposite side 
of the cover. If a target is behind multiple sources 
of cover, only the most protective degree of cover 
applies; the degrees aren’t added together. For ex -
ample, if a target is behind a creature that gives Half 
Cover and a tree trunk that gives Three-Quarters 
Cover, the target has Three-Quarters Cover.
Cover
Degree Benefit to Target Offered By …
Half +2 bonus to AC 
and Dexterity 
saving throws
Another creature or 
an object that covers at 
least half of the target
Three- 
Quarters
+5 bonus to AC 
and Dexterity 
saving throws
An object that covers at 
least three-quarters of 
the target
Total Can’t be targeted 
directly
An object that covers 
the whole target
Ranged Attacks
When you make a ranged attack, you fire a bow, 
hurl an axe, or otherwise send projectiles to strike a 
foe at a distance. Many spells also involve making a 
ranged attack.
Range
You can make ranged attacks only against targets 
within a specified range. If a ranged attack, such as 
one made with a spell, has a single range, you can’t 
attack a target beyond this range.
 Some ranged attacks, such as those made with a 
Longbow, have two ranges. The smaller number is 
the normal range, and the larger number is the long 
range. Your attack roll has Disadvantage when your 
target is beyond normal range, and you can’t attack 
a target beyond long range.
Ranged Attacks in Close Combat
Aiming a ranged attack is more difficult when a foe 
is next to you. When you make a ranged attack roll 
with a weapon, a spell, or some other means, you 
have Disadvantage on the roll if you are within 5 
feet of an enemy who can see you and doesn’t have 
the Incapacitated condition (see “Rules Glossary”).
Melee Attacks
A melee attack allows you to attack a target within 
your reach. A melee attack typically uses a hand -
held weapon or an Unarmed Strike. Many monsters 
make melee attacks with claws, teeth, or other body 
parts. A few spells also involve melee attacks.
Reach
A creature has a 5-foot reach and can thus attack 
targets within 5 feet when making a melee attack. 
Certain creatures have melee attacks with a reach 
greater than 5 feet, as noted in their descriptions.
Opportunity Attacks
Combatants watch for enemies to drop their guard. 
If you move heedlessly past your foes, you put your -
self in danger by provoking an Opportunity Attack.
 Avoiding Opportunity Attacks.  You can avoid 
provoking an Opportunity Attack by taking the 
Disengage action. You also don’t provoke an Oppor -
tunity Attack when you Teleport or when you are 
moved without using your movement, action, Bonus 
Action, or Reaction. For example, you don’t provoke 
an Opportunity Attack if an explosion hurls you out 
of a foe’s reach or if you fall past an enemy.
 Making an Opportunity Attack. You can make an 
Opportunity Attack when a creature that you can 
see leaves your reach. To make the attack, take a Re -
action to make one melee attack with a weapon or 
an Unarmed Strike against that creature. The attack 
occurs right before it leaves your reach.
Mounted Combat
A willing creature that is at least one size larger 
than a rider and that has an appropriate anatomy 
can serve as a mount, using the following rules.
Mounting and Dismounting
During your move, you can mount a creature that 
is within 5 feet of you or dismount. Doing so costs 
an amount of movement equal to half your Speed 
(round down). For example, if your Speed is 30 feet, 
you spend 15 feet of movement to mount a horse.