System Reference Document 5.2.1
99
 Fuel. Oil serves as fuel for Lamps and Lanterns. 
Once lit, a flask of Oil burns for 6 hours in a Lamp or 
Lantern. That duration doesn’t need to be consecu -
tive; you can extinguish the burning Oil (as a Utilize 
action) and rekindle it again until it has burned for a 
total of 6 hours.
Paper (2 SP)
One sheet of Paper can hold about 250 handwritten 
words.
Parchment (1 SP)
One sheet of Parchment can hold about 250 hand -
written words.
Perfume (5 GP)
Perfume comes in a 4-ounce vial. For 1 hour after 
applying Perfume to yourself, you have Advantage 
on Charisma (Persuasion) checks made to influence 
an Indifferent Humanoid within 5 feet of yourself.
Poison, Basic (100 GP)
As a Bonus Action, you can use a vial of Basic Poison 
to coat one weapon or up to three pieces of ammu -
nition. A creature that takes Piercing or Slashing 
damage from the poisoned weapon or ammunition 
takes an extra 1d4 Poison damage. Once applied, 
the poison retains potency for 1 minute or until its 
damage is dealt, whichever comes first.
Pole (5 CP)
A Pole is 10 feet long. You can use it to touch 
something up to 10 feet away. If you must make a 
Strength (Athletics) check as part of a High or Long 
Jump, you can use the Pole to vault, giving yourself 
Advantage on the check.
Pot, Iron (2 GP)
An Iron Pot holds up to 1 gallon.
Potion of Healing (50 GP)
This potion is a magic item. As a Bonus Action, you 
can drink it or administer it to another creature 
within 5 feet of yourself. The creature that drinks 
the magical red fluid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 Hit 
Points.
Pouch (5 SP)
A Pouch holds up to 6 pounds within one-fifth of a 
cubic foot.
Priest’s Pack (33 GP)
A Priest’s Pack contains the following items: Back -
pack, Blanket, Holy Water, Lamp, 7 days of Rations, 
Robe, and Tinderbox.
Quiver (1 GP)
A Quiver holds up to 20 Arrows.
Ram, Portable (4 GP)
You can use a Portable Ram to break down doors. 
When doing so, you gain a +4 bonus to the Strength 
check. One other character can help you use the 
ram, giving you Advantage on this check.
Rations (5 SP)
Rations consist of travel-ready food, including jerky, 
dried fruit, hardtack, and nuts. See “Malnutrition” 
in “Rules Glossary” for the risks of not eating.
Robe (1 GP)
A Robe has vocational or ceremonial significance. 
Some events and locations admit only people wear -
ing a Robe bearing certain colors or symbols.
Rope (1 GP)
As a Utilize action, you can tie a knot with Rope if 
you succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) 
check. The Rope can be burst with a successful DC 
20 Strength (Athletics) check.
 You can bind an unwilling creature with the Rope 
only if the creature has the Grappled, Incapacitated, 
or Restrained condition. If the creature’s legs are 
bound, the creature has the Restrained condition 
until it escapes. Escaping the Rope requires the 
creature to make a successful DC 15 Dexterity (Ac -
robatics) check as an action.
Sack (1 CP)
A Sack holds up to 30 pounds within 1 cubic foot.
Scholar’s Pack (40 GP)
A Scholar’s Pack contains the following items: Back -
pack, Book, Ink, Ink Pen, Lamp, 10 flasks of Oil, 10 
sheets of Parchment, and Tinderbox.
Shovel (2 GP)
Working for 1 hour, you can use a Shovel to dig a 
hole that is 5 feet on each side in soil or similar 
material.
Signal Whistle (5 CP)
When blown as a Utilize action, a Signal Whistle 
produces a sound that can be heard up to 600 feet 
away.
Spell Scroll (Cantrip, 30 GP;  
Level 1, 50 GP)
A Spell Scroll (Cantrip) or Spell Scroll (Level 1) is a 
magic item that bears the words of a cantrip or level 
1 spell, respectively, determined by the scroll’s cre -
ator. If the spell is on your class’s spell list, you can 
read the scroll and cast the spell using its normal 
casting time and without providing any Material 
components.
 If the spell requires a saving throw or an attack 
roll, the spell save DC is 13, and the attack bonus 
is +5. The scroll disintegrates when the casting is 
completed.